the article whats new in the caribbean for 2022 written by suri 2020 describes the revitalization of the caribbean islands after the pandemic of covid19.
according to the author, many visitors, primarily people from the u.s., were driven to the caribbean as a pandemic travel destination because of its accessibility and reasonably successful reputation in managing covid19 suri, 2021.
all of those encourage people to visit exotic and frequently mysterious locations, which the caribbean islands are for many.
in the given article, the author describes the measures that the authorities of the caribbean islands are taking to attract more tourists to the destinations.
the article illustrates the seriousness of the problem thus, the author mentions that some of the caribbean, such as trinidad and the cayman islands, were bound to close their borders completely suri, 2022.
while refusal to travel causes global expenditures to tourist businesses, the approach of people who do not desire to spread the virus had experienced a layoff or fear isolation is quite understandable.
for example, while some people refused to travel to the caribbean islands, it was said that they remained loyal to their favorite destination and would not want to go anywhere else.
with the situation in the caribbean, many businesses and islands were preparing for tourism flow and making advancements in this field.
the article whats new in the caribbean for 2022, written by suri, illuminates the influence of covid19 on the caribbean islands economy and tourism infrastructure.
while before the pandemic, many destinations in the caribbean experienced growth and advancements in the face of tourist inflow, the time of the pandemic, many people refused to go abroad.
what is more, the article written by suri made me think of the community challenges, personal contributions to foreign economies, and support of entrepreneurial ideas that can lead to the successful attraction of tourists, such as the idea of john alexander.
also, though i understand the approaches of travelers to refuse to go abroad for fear of isolation, or other reasons, i agree with many tourists who remain loyal to the caribbean islands.