in this sense, one should mention the model of the cost of a positive integer as an attempt to represent kolmogorov complexity in a more straightforward, more comprehensible language.
in general, the cost of a positive integer describes the complexity of representing any positive integer in a data set as the sum or product of smaller numbers from the same set.
in creating the cost function of a positive integer, cm , calhoun used the following considerations
consequently, since one of the two operations for a finite number of smaller numbers must be applied to identify the conditional third term of the data set, the calhoun function is recursive avu.
thus, for any set of binary operations s and for any positive integer m , there exists a calhoun function such that
however, for 5, there is only one function, c s , that uniquely describes the set s and satisfies the definition of the value of a positive integer.
another critical consequence follows from the above if the number of operations in s is finite, then c s is an evaluable function, unlike the kolmogorov complexity of a string.
in fact, the positive integer cost function described in the previous section is a multivalued mathematical model from which several valuable conclusions can be drawn.
recall that c s is defined as a minimum of possible binary operations on smaller positive integers.
for example, a positive integer m can be called multiplicative if
hence, by now, it is precisely known that the calhoun model uses either multiplication or addition as variations of binary operations, with the cost function of a positive integer applying either of these operations whose result will be numerically smaller.
an example of positive integer cost functions for numbers from 1 to 10.
for example, table 1 shows that the number 9 is fully multiplicative, so it can be represented as
kolmogorov complexity is one such phenomenon in the general case, this model shows the impossibility of computing a program that could define a minimally compressed model that fully encodes some information.