the chances of survival of a patient requiring resuscitation depend on the correct application of the cpr procedure and the immediate collaborative response of the medical teams.
the australian resuscitation council arc guideline three recommends that healthcare workers call for help from colleagues in case of a cardiac arrest curtis et al., 2019.
according to arc guideline four, clearing the airway includes opening the mouth and gently lowering the head to enable any visible foreign material, such as food, blood, vomit, or fluids, to drain bray et al., 2021.
according to the arc guideline five, the medical team looks, listens, and feels while checking the patients breathing pattern mclure et al., 2021.
these include mouthtomouth rescue breaths, mouthtonose, mouthtostoma, mouthtomask, and bag valve masks bvm panchal et al., 2020.
a clear airway guideline 4, an appropriate mask seal, and an acceptable breathing method are required for effective bag valve mask ventilation olasveengen et al., 2021.
compression of the chest is one of the most critical procedures in resuscitation that must be performed properly.
according to research, the rescuers fatigue during cpr affects the compressions efficiency cobovzquez et al., 2018.
thus, timely cardiopulmonary resuscitation cpr and defibrillation may help save a persons life and minimize any longterm functional disability.
the odds of life for a patient who requires resuscitation are dependent on the correct administration of cpr and the medical teams prompt joint reaction.
bray, j., acworth, j., page, g., parr, m., morley, p.,  australian resuscitation council and kids save lives stakeholder organisations.
pediatric life support 2020 international consensus on cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiovascular care science with treatment recommendations .
mclure, m., eastwood, k., parr, m.,  bray, j.
d., avis, s., brooks, s., castrn, m., chung, s., considine, j., couper, k., escalante, r., hatanaka, t., hung, k., kudenchuk, p., lim, s., nishiyama, c., ristagno, g., semeraro, f., smith, c., smyth, mrajendran, k.
adult basic life support international consensus on cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiovascular care science with treatment recommendations .
part 3 adult basic and advanced life support 2020 american heart association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiovascular care .
d., rowsell, l., van heusden, a., zentner, d., parsons, s., morgan, n., thompson, t., james, p., pflaumer, a., semsarian, c., ingles, j., case, r., ball, j., smith, k., stub, d., gerche, a.,  registry, a.