however, in practice, justice and the attitude of the criminal justice system, especially in relation to punishment, to offenders are determined by several factors, including a persons economic status.
on the other hand, the predominance of people with low economic status in prisons indicates justice inequities on the basis of income.
the significance of this paper is determined by the fact that the criminal justice systems unfair treatment of offenders on the basis of their economic status violates peoples constitutional rights.
the paper aims to assume or abandon the following hypothesis people with lower economic status are punished more severely for crimes than those with higher economic status.
otherwise stated, people with lower economic status are sentenced to imprisonment more frequently and convicted of more crimes in comparison with more affluent individuals bagaric, 2015.
in addition, sentences for the same crime may be substantially different for poor and rich people.
however, statistical data shows that economically disadvantaged people are more vulnerable to being arrested and more likely to be charged with a harsher crime and to receive a longer sentence hayes  barnhorst, 2020, para.
while the impact of low income on incarceration has been already identified and examined, injustice in punishment for similar or the same crimes on the basis of economic status attracts particular attention.
inequities in punishment may be explained by the criminal justice systems focus on the offender rather than victims and the crime fredericks et al., 2016.
however, in practice, multiple experts on sentencing policy admit that in the united states, there are two criminal systems  one for rich and one for poor two in one differences in the us justice system for the rich and the poor, 2016.
in other words, unequal access to resources contributes to the creation of great disparities in how the criminal justice system addresses people with low and high economic status.
finally, due to low economic status, perpetrators have limited access to counsel, publiclyfunded treatment programs, and alternative incarceration two in one differences in the us justice system for the rich and the poor, 2016.
affluent citizens have an opportunity to escape punishment for serious crimes due to their high economic status.
at the same time, even if the severity of a whitecollar crime presupposes imprisonment, its conditions will differ from the incarceration of poor offenders.
in addition, higher economic status is associated with whitecollar crimes that are not punished severely.