it is important to note that many organizations see the management of diversity programs as not being limited to hrd programs and processes, but expanded to include special needs of the new employees.
therefore as the hrd manager for cape coral hospital, my task is to propose new training programs and processes to senior management, and explain how hrd methods can help manage a culturally diverse workforce.
as the hrd manager for cape coral hospital, recognizing and valuing employees is of great benefit, especially when they come from diverse cultures.
for the senior management at cape coral hospital, there are important new training programs that i would propose in an effort to develop effective recruitment and selection methods to attract more minorities.
this training program will be aimed at helping the senior management differentiate between ethnicity and race.
this training program aims at helping senior management to train employees the importance of working togetherit improves employee engagement.
the program also strives to remind the senior managers the benefits of hiring people with diverse disabilities.
therefore, genderbased training program will train senior management how to remove biases linked to gender, thus making workplace more diverse and inclusive.
therefore, it is imperative for senior management to implement this training program because it helps remove unconscious biases in the workplace.
cape coral hospitals senior management has the authority to implement the aforementioned new training programs alongside other advantages such as flexible work schedules, onsite daycare and childcare subsides.
the new training processes that i propose to senior management include making their commitment clear, encouraging objectivity, screening and interviewing and inclusive interviewing.
another new training process the senior management will be educated on is on how to encourage objectivity.
here, cape coral hospitals management will receive training on how to make a multitier approach part of the organizations recruitment policy.
the hrd methods such as job rotation, assistant to position, committee assignment, and outdoor training can be utilized to manage a culturally diverse workforce.
cape coral hospitals employees will be trained on the need to continue working in teams towards meeting the objective of the organization.