modern academic facilities are interested in developing and discussing various models to evaluate adult students learning processes and the role of educators.
in this report, the article meaningful learning from sustained online communication a reflection with a group of adults by abdallah and albadri in the book about information systems in the education sector will be criticized.
relying on the already offered models and learning approaches, abdallah and albadri 2013 introduced their model to prove that the adoption of elearning technologies would enhance the possibilities of students in the arab world.
therefore, the authors of the article under analysis shared the statement that adult education may be considerably improved by engaging students through online discussion boards under welldesigned models abdallah and albadri, 2013.
although the problem statement does not indicate specific variables in research, the information of the chosen exploratory case study was properly analyzed to introduce four new categories to evaluate students skills, processes, and results.
after the introduction of the study and the identification of the major research questions and problems, the authors aim at evaluating the already existing online learning discussion boards.
first, abdallah and albadri 2013 mentioned that many studies about online learning and the examination of students posting could be appropriate as a background for their research.
the differentiation between indepth and surface cognitive processes was studied by henri in 1992 to prove the role of teachers participation in student learning as cited in abdallah and albadri, 2013.
in abdallah and albadris article, there is a properly formulated statement that online interaction is usually determined by several cognitive activities to improve students critical thinking.
such dimensions as observation, insights, deliberation, and learning from others improve the quality of education and encourage adults to participate in multiple activities available at discussion boards abdallah and albadri, 2013.
the result showed by abdallah and albadri 2013 was a model with four categories for cognitive processes observation, insight, deliberations, and learning from others.
additional work, attention to the details, and specific measurements are required to improve the study and create a framework for the analysis of cognitive processes in students who are involved in online learning.