the methods for increasing preventative care are explored and a project proposed that can be standardized across all healthcare facilities.
the focus of this paper is on identifying and implementing methods of increasing preventative care measures.
therefore, the proposed project should get all stakeholders informed on what pathways to follow to increase preventative health measures.
according to hostetter et al., 2020, primary care visits have been known to influence health behaviors, but links between these visits and preventive interventions remain unclear.
therefore, primary care visits can be considered one of the most effective methods of increasing preventative care measures.
decision support systems are considered a critical method for increasing preventative care measures and outcomes.
a study by bowen et al., 2017 expresses that a decision support system improves the performance of preventive health quality measures where care is done elsewhere, and patient exceptions are captured.
therefore, decision support systems for clinicians can be an effective method for increasing preventative healthcare measures.
based on the literature provided above, this project seeks to aid in the implementation of preventative care methods.
the project can be labeled as a guideline for holistic preventative care, a tool that allows health professionals to select and apply the right method to specific case scenarios.
the healthcare industry will be positively influenced by this project in that it will find a more effective tool for pursuing the goals of preventative care.
therefore, this project can be conceptualized as an effort to standardize preventive care practice across all healthcare facilities.
this project has addressed the problem of finding methods for increasing preventative care measures.
the literature review has revealed several methods that have been studied or implemented, including cbt, primary care visits, and clinical decision support systems.
improving performance on preventive health quality measures using clinical decision support to capture care done elsewhere and patient exceptions.
primary care visits increase utilization of evidencebased preventative health measures.