despite the increasing popularity of horror films in households across the globe, the psychological challenges associated with exposing children to grotesque content are debilitating and have longterm impacts on their wellbeing.
the film industry took note of the increasing popularity of the use of fear and produced the curse of frankenstein in 1957, which spurred the growth of horror movies in hollywood valkenburg and taylor piotrowski 120.
6. it is vital to note that while children may not be overly exposed to scary media content, they derive pleasure from activities that involve anxiety, apprehension, and fear, such as hide and seek clasen et al.
exposing children to horror films is unwise, seeing as they may experience harmful longterm psychological effects.
young children express the fear of and attraction to horror in similar ways to adults.
even though not all children who watch horror films will suffer lifealtering effects, a significant number are affected in their adult lives.
children between two and seven years of age often experience intense fright reactions when exposed to scary content because their cognitive level of development is characterized by simple cause and effect associations valkenburg and taylor piotrowski 121.
children exposed to horror films tend to display increasingly aggressive and violent behavior.
the experience of fear shapes childrens perceptions of reality and may impact their development.
horror films initiate or worsen fear of the dark in affected children.
affected individuals employ two coping mechanisms when they experience the fear associated with horror films.
despite the fact that horror films may provide an opportunity for children to learn how to cope with stressful situations, exposure must be limited.
therefore, parents should restrict horror films to ensure that their childrens psychological development is not adversely affected.
the increased popularity of horror films means more children are getting exposed to scary content.
exposing children to horror films must be discouraged in light of the detrimental psychological effects related to the genre.