austville community health centre is an ideal place for mrs..
smiths home and the austville center can help her exercise through walking, which is very beneficial in managing her condition.
smith to obtain care because it has multidisciplinary healthcare personnel trained to offer highquality services to the elderly.
since the health center provides most of its health services to the elderly, mrs..
smith, will need to see at the health centre, and what services each of them could offer
smith would seek assistance from including the podiatrist, optometrist, diabetes educator, physiotherapist, and clinical exercise physiologist.
thus eye care is essential for patients with diabetes ford et al.
smith may require the services of a clinical exercise physiologist cep who is integral personnel to patients with chronic illnesses, especially diabetes.
smiths care would be funded, and the benefits mrs.
if a community health center offers ongoing or continuous primary care services to an individual meeting these criteria, the institution may also qualify for a carer benefit payments, concessions n.d..
the benefits a primary health centre such as austville would offer for others in the local community
according to research, a robust primary healthcare system is linked with low medical costs, improved efficiency, reduced hospitalization rates, increased patient satisfaction, and positive health outcomes van weel  kidd 2018, p.
therefore, the austville center will provide comprehensive and tailored services to meet the health needs of the locals.
not to mention, a primary care doctor may help patients avoid certain health complications that may affect them in the future.
in this case, based on a patients health records, a physician may detect an increased risk of conditions such as cancer, diabetes, stroke, and obesity, among others.
7. therefore, primary care centres offer continuity of care which substantially improves the local residents health outcomes.
austville sees the opportunity to continue running primary care, community caf, education group exercise, and english conversation programs to enhance these groups dependent functioning and social integration.
austville provides older patients with various services, resources, and general assistance around their homes.
the organization plans to invest additional resources to help diabetic patients manage their lifestyle conditions and aid in the social integration of migrants.