the purpose of the current project is to validate the benefits of telepsychiatry and pave the way for further updates through the interface of kotters change model and quality improvement initiatives supported by six sigma methods.
accordingly, the problem that the author offers to resolve is a largerscale implementation of telepsychiatry in an attempt to appeal to both local care providers and patients, especially with the a increased costs of healthcare services forced by the pandemic and b an exceptionally quick spread of technology across most spheres of human lives.
despite the lack of interpersonal contact, the author considers telepsychiatry a reasonable means of addressing current issues in mental health care because remote psychiatric sessions give a feeling of privacy and safety to every patient.
the latter should be the central focus of the current project if the team is willing to promote the core advantages of telepsychiatry and expect patients to provide their timely feedback.
as a result, a variety of leadership qualities will be expected to help the management address the majority of concerns and anxieties related to telepsychiatry and experienced by patients and team members.
the introduction of telepsychiatry would require the team to promote additional training sessions in order to execute change properly and remove obsolete obstacles to digitalized care.
as soon as telepsychiatry is implemented, the team should exert even more effort to nurture success and improve the quality of services provided to patients.
after implementing telepsychiatry, the team will be required to put telehealth on the list of key organizational assets since digitalization precedes a sustainable care environment.
utilizing patient health records to improve the state of affairs       a superficial approach to patients health records will decrease the effectiveness of telepsychiatry and deteriorate further health encounters for both providers and patients saeed, 2018.
defining the problem              team members have to realize the impact of digital solutions and exert enough efforts to maintain telepsychiatry and achieve positive patient outcomes                                                                      
improving the process             quality improvement initiatives will be focused on looking into how more patients could be attracted to telepsychiatry without a substantial increase in the cost of respective services                                    
structure  telehealth initiatives can be utilized to protect patients from negative health outcomes and optimize the general process of care provision nilson et al., 2017.
outcomes   patient assessment can be completed with the help of digital assistants purchased by the administration, with team members being responsible for starting the treatment as soon as possible and having all the knowledge required to provide care to respective patients lew, 2020.
while gaining insight into team members and patients concerns, the administration will also have the opportunity to map future activities and evaluate their perceived benefits in association with the key strengths of telepsychiatry.
based on the number of telepsychiatry patients and the amount of time spent in sessions, the management will be able to predict revenue on investment and conclude whether the telehealth initiative was financially successful or not.
john kotters change model, failure modes and effects analysis, and six sigma can be successfully implemented to enhance the quality of care and ensure that most of the benefits of telemedicine will be turned into monetary profit and patient satisfaction.