the film the big lebowski by cohen brothers report assessment
when discussing the masterpieces of cinematography, the audience always has before their eyes the image of jeff bridges with shaggy hair, in a bathrobe of indeterminate color, floating relaxed among the bowling lanes from the coen brothers masterpiece the big lebowski .
a little later, while discussing the incident with his buddies walter and donnie at a bowling alley, the dude realizes that he was confused with another jeff lebowski, a wealthy man and businessman whose wife bunny with a dubious past became the trigger for unpleasant events meyer and griffin 97.
john goodman played the dudes best friend, walter sobchak, and without this character, the film would not have been so colorful.
nevertheless, his character almost always looks happy due to the opportunity to be part of the walter and dude collective nayman 101.
in social terms, it is clear that the dude is little lebowski compared with a disabled person photographed with the first lady and hung the key to pasadena on the wall nayman 15.
the path to cult film status for the big lebowski began with halfempty theaters, skeptical reviews, and low ratings on the web.
however, several circumstances make it challenging to consider the character of jeff bridges as someone like henry chinaski from the movie drunk, and not only because lebowski drinks moderately rienties et al.
walter sobchak is a parody of the image of a vietnam war veteran, replicated by hundreds of cult films, and at the same time, ridiculing the modern approach to religion suttom and wogan 76.
in the very first monologue of the big lebowski , almost all american values are ridiculed, from individualism to the cult of success rienties et al.
no matter how trite it may sound, the big lebowski is a film that can make anyone laugh and in which everyone will find something of their own that is why millions of viewers in different countries love it.
in the film of the coen brothers, all events, characters, and social institutions turn out to be complete opposites of what they seem or what they should be for example the millionaire does not have a penny, the police do not protect, but beat citizens, no one kidnapped the kidnapped, million was not in the case.
the big lebowski uses so many recognizable cliches of this style that the film can be called a parody comedy.
the big lebowski .