a pressure injury can be defined as localized skin and tissue damage caused by pressure and shear alotaibi et al., 2019.
for example, the cochrane review demonstrated the high efficacy of using specialized mattresses in preventing pressure injuries, but insufficient evidence for the benefit of pressure relief, nutritional support, dressing for bony prominence, and skin moisturizers alotaibi et al., 2019.
this review aims to uncover the importance of implementing such evidencebased interventions as pressure injury prevention bundles in reducing pressure rates in critical care units.
the european pressure ulcer advisory panel describes six stages of pressure injuries gupta et al., 2020.
the bundle approach was proven to be an effective method to reduce the prevalence of pressure injuries in critical care unit patients courtwright et al., 2017.
moreover, the four other approaches to reduce the severity of pressure injuries, recommended by the international pressure ulcer guidelines, include prophylactic dressing, silklike textiles, electrical muscle stimulation, and microclimate, controlling temperature and humidity of the skin romanelli et al., 2018.
implementation of this bundle in critical care, surgical, and stepdown units resulted in a significant reduction in the occurrence of pressure ulcers rivera et al., 2020.
specifically, the index of healthcareassociated pressure injuries, which is the proportion of patients with pressure ulcers to the days spent in the hospital, dropped from 3.4 to 0.48 rivera et al., 2020.
moreover, a fouryear quality improvement study demonstrated a 63 reduction in the prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospitals after introducing the bundle approach richardson et al., 2017.
another study, conducted in saudi arabia, showed an 83 drop in hospitalacquired pressure injuries over the 12 weeks of implementation of this method alotaibi et al., 2019.
moreover, optimizing patients health and boosting their immune status is essential for pressure injury prevention romanelli et al., 2018.
to summarize, the prevention bundle for pressure injuries is a critical approach in reducing pressure ulcers incidence in critical care units.