uhc managing hacs and hais in the context of insurance programs research paper
however, clinics often have problems, called hacs, that result in additional damage to a patients health at the fault of the hospital.
to put it another way, insurance companies including uhc should not cover reasonably preventable acts of harm to a patients health because the blame in these scenarios is imposed on physician error and negligence uhc, 2021.
however, uhc also uses other methods to influence clinics, such as through fines on reimbursable patient charges if clinical entities have hais greater than a set threshold richardson, 2015.
as a generalization, it is pertinent to note that uhc satisfies the regulatory requirement well and creates a culture in which clinics find themselves interested in providing the best care for patients.
for uhc, there seems to be an apparent interest in reducing the number of hacs.
it is also helpful to estimate the amount of money that is reimbursed to a patient if hac has been included in the 14 exclusion lists uhc, 2021.
for company employees, the training should be implemented in order to increase their competence and remind them of the penalties imposed by the uhc if the clinic commits many medical errors van et al., 2018.
in this sense, it is critical for the insurance company to be fully transparent about its intentions, namely to improve the health care agenda by reducing errors  code of ethics , 2020.
hais as part of the larger problem of hacs is a major challenge to the health care system because it not only strikes patients health but also dramatically increases treatment costs.
for united healthcare insurance uhc , neither medicaid nor medicare has covered the costs associated with acquired hais and hacs since 2009.
in fact, a list of requirements for specific types of hacs was created, but in general, it meant an attempt to implement a penalty system to reduce government funding for health care organizations.
section 3025 of the ppaca places limits on the number of patients who can be hospitalized for hacs or hais.
the committee, based on a partnership of cdc and state insurance programs, has recognized hacs and hais as reasonably avoidable conditions, and therefore any costs incurred for these consequences are not paid by uhc .
because cases of hacs and hais have been legally treated as reasonably preventable, uhc is exempt from liability.
at that time, hospitals, if the hacs case is on the list of 14 exclusions, are exempt from liability because it is covered by the patients insurance plan  uhc .
due to the interest of clinics, the number of hacs and hais cases decreases.
uhc can conduct educational activities to educate clients about the liability of clinical organizations not insurance companies in cases of hacs.
degree of patient awareness of uhcs lack of liability for hacs.
if a clinic improves its performance i.e., reduces the number of active hacs in a reporting period, uhc can reduce the size of penalties for it this will create additional motivation.