if one have a lot of uric acid in the body, they are more likely to get gout.
gout is more commonly found in men than in women because of its low uric acid levels.
a diet high in lean meats, fish and shellfish, and fructosesweetened drinks increase uric acid levels and increases the risk of gout.
comorbidities of gout are very common, increasing the prevalence of the disease and making it more difficult to treat.
in a study conducted by nathan et al 2020, nearly 10 of respondents said they would not be treated for gout because they could not afford treatment and medication.
in our study, not all patients with costrelated treatment attrition crta were able to purchase gout medication.
patients with gout median age 53 years had significantly more comorbidity, lowerincome, and lower education levels than comparable controls sigurdardottir et al., 2018.
during the 3year followup period, gout patients had higher average absenteeism than controls p0.0001, 22 and 14, respectively sigurdardottir et al., 2018.
the second type helps reduce the amount of uric acid in the blood and prevent gout problems.
if the patient has multiple gout attacks each year, or if the gout attacks are less but more painful, the doctor may prescribe medication to reduce the risk of gout problems.
if the patient has evidence of gout injury on joint xrays, and if he has gout nodules, chronic kidney disease, or kidney stones, uric acidlowering drugs can be prescribed.
limited knowledge of gout, contact with healthcare providers, attitudes and experience of taking medication, and practical barriers to longterm substance use have also been found to be common problems for gout patients rai et al., 2018.
the extensive review of the global literature often provides knowledge of gout among clinicians who are likely to contribute to inadequate patient education on the underlying causes of gout and important approaches to treatment rai et al., 2018.
health providers, especially general practitioners, said they lacked time to provide appropriate gout education to patients rai et al., 2018.
for example, patients were unaware of the role of uric acid in the development of gout, the availability and correct use of curative ult, and the risk of paradoxical recurrence at the onset of ult.
gout is a chronic disease of the joints characterized initially by recurrent inflammatory reactions or flares in response to the formation of urate crystals in joint spaces in individuals with high serum uric acid ua concentrations.
there are several factors influencing the occurrence of gout disease however, the main cause is the excess of uric acid in the body, known as hyperuricemia.
despite the fact that there are different medicaments used in the current treatment, there are still barriers associated with the effective treatment of gout disease.