years later, amazon became a leading online store, prompting jeff bezos to write a book, invent and wonder , widely inspired by amazons success.
invent and wonder by jeff bezos seeks to explain how amazon became successful through its business practices through the documentation of company documents by jeff bezos.
in part one of the book, the shareholder letters, jeff bezos shows the steps taken by amazon throughout its twentythree years of operation up to 2019 isaacson  bezos, 2020.
the letters are written by jeff bezos to every stakeholder in amazon, describing what the company has done and what the company intends to do.
in all the letters that jeff bezos writes, and in almost all the transcripts of jeff bezos, the importance of the customer for the success of amazon is highlighted.
jeff bezos values the customer, and every decision or investment he makes for the company aims to address the customers needs isaacson  bezos, 2020.
jeff bezos knows that amazon is not a company that will die out soon, and therefore every time, he looks up ways to ensure the company maintains longevity and thus maintains its future.
most letters by jeff bezos are about the future of amazon.
the letter shows that jeff bezos understood that amazon was performing well and that selling shares would only mean that people are banking on the companys future isaacson  bezos, 2020.
the concept of amazon itself was an innovation by a young jeff bezos.
jeff bezos says that he has wanted to be an innovator all his life, and when he got the idea of creating amazon, he decided to quit his job and focus on his innovation isaacson  bezos, 2020.
when jeff bezos saw that amazon was successful, he once emailed a number of its customers.
in his 2018 letter to the shareowners, jeff bezos claims that no one asked for amazon web services aws, which amazon developed to offer cloud computing and api services to users and companies isaacson  bezos, 2020.
jeff bezos says that he is a type 1 decisionmaker since decisions taken by amazon at his level are primarily highend and can be inflexible isaacson  bezos, 2020.
jeff bezos addresses that amazon will only hire the bestqualified workers that will help in uplifting the company.
jeff bezos invent and wonder successfully captures the rise of amazon and carefully notes the essential tips on how a company can also be successful.