conduction, convection, and radiation all contribute to the transfer of heat to the food during cooking harold 782.
the liquid is used for cooking food in moist heat bernhardt, simone, and elmar 328.
usually, the above liquids are included in cooked food or heated before the addition is done.
dry heat cooking methods do not require the use of water to cook the meal.
with braising, food cooks more evenly because heat is uniformly distributed throughout the pot, making it possible to cook it on the stovetop or in an oven mwale et al.
braising technique is commonly used to cook modern foods as they require uniform distribution of heat.
in poaching, food is immersed in a liquid such as wine, stock, or water and cooked at a low temperature.
poaching is distinguished from other wet heat cooking techniques, such as simmering and boiling, by its low temperature about 160180 f 7182 c mwale et al.
simmering is a cooking method in which food is cooked at temperatures between 180f and 205f.
simmered food cooks pretty evenly since it is surrounded by water that keeps a reasonably constant temperature harold 784.
steaming is a cooking method that involves exposing food to steam in a pressured steam cooker or heating it in a securely covered pan or other container.
dry heat cooking method
this method cooks food pretty evenly, as all of the foods surfaces are exposed to approximately the same amount of heat.
both roasting and baking require that the food is cooked uncovered so that the heat is provided by hot, dry air rather than steam from the food.
broiling is the process of bringing food very close to an intense heat source to cook it quickly at a high temperature.
as a cooking method, panfrying relies on oilfat as a heat transfer medium and on the proper temperature and timing to avoid overcooking or burning the food.
on the other hand, dry cooking techniques entail broiling, baking, roasting, grilling, panbroiling, griddling, sauting, panfrying, and deepfrying are all examples of dryheat cooking methods.