an emphatic body of research has revealed that the client medical data storage process is complex when individuals lack understanding on which concerns to address, whom to contact when their situation evolves, and what comprises severe symptoms pelaccia et al., 2020.
it also increases efficiency and cost savings in health care by encouraging preventative treatment, improving service synchronization, and minimizing waste and redundant tests marmor et al., 2018.
ehrs also play a significant role in improving clinical decisionmaking by integrating patient data from numerous sources marmor et al., 2018.
additionally, telehealth is another option for enhancing effective patient records collaboration and enhancing the overall quality of health care graber et al., 2017.
first, assessing the environment and involving pointofcare healthcare practitioners in selecting and prioritizing patient safety programs, explicitly articulating the documentation foundation for patient safety challenges and the circumstances or settings they apply amitaharon et al., 2020.
rather than that, healthcare institutions must spend the resources and personnel necessary to foster an environment conducive to evidencebased patient safety precautions, where inquiries are appreciated, and processes are in place to make doing the right thing simple.
in healthcare institutions, safety measures are in place to protect people, their relatives and caregivers, medical professionals, contract service employees, activists, and the numerous other people who transactions them into contact with a clinical setting.
some of the existing organizational resources that may necessitate implementing the safety improvement plan discussed above include institutional finances, dynamic resources, and safety and security systems.
furthermore, since individuals monitor them, medical errors are quickly detected upon incorporating the improvement plan in the care institutions system.
an organizations security and safety resources aid in implementing the obligatory report mechanisms to help detect and report medical mistakes.
2017 distinguished specific sets of dynamic resources as responsive capability, which identifies and capitalizes on emerging trends, and absorbent abilities, which absorb new information and integrate it with a medical cares internal skills.
therefore, institutions can easily incorporate the mandatory report systems to avoid medication errors with technological capabilities as nurses are not immune to making mistakes.
additionally, maintenance and repair costs would also be necessary for the enhancement safety plan to function, to meet the needs of the clinical setting of minimizing medical errors among clinicians to improve patient safety and satisfaction.
root cause analysis and actions for the prevention of medical errors quality improvement and resident education.