in the current proposal, the picot question is outlined as follows could senior individuals suffering from obesity benefit from the utilization of the adkar change management model?
the purpose of the project is to examine the current scholarly literature on the prevention of excessive weight conditions in aged patients, ascertain the adkar approach, and establish an implementation plan to address the issue.
numerous studies report preventing the onset of obesity appears to be a more prominent strategy in comparison with treating a developed condition, especially in highrisk populations pearce et al., 2019.
for instance, the awareness, desire, knowledge, ability, reinforcement  adkar change model was proved to be especially useful for interventions focused on reshaping the attitudes towards healthy living slaughter, 2021.
such interventions as psychotherapy and inpatient consultations utilizing the adkar framework were found to be useful, achieving the desired outcomes in individual change davidsen, 2015 thomas, 2021.
furthermore, this method was successfully used involving other age groups, suggesting that it is possible to accomplish behavioral changes through the utilization of the adkar model.
based on the theoretical information and empirical data gathered from the evidencebased practice, an intervention plan incorporating the adkar change framework was devised.
after that, to properly evaluate the frameworks usefulness, studies involving older patients and obesity were evaluated.
in addition, it is suggested that senior individuals often respond positively to the stepbystep methods involving a gradual transition and flow of information, which is possible through the utilization of adkar greenwoodhickman et al., 2016.
furthermore, the practical solutions were outlined according to the data on successful interventions and reported findings regarding older generations behavioral change patterns.
to conclude, the necessity to battle the onset of obesity in senior citizens through the implementation of the adkar change model was discussed in detail in this essay.
health behavior change for obesity management.