advertising cosmetics on black women
use of black models to advertise beauty products by manufacturers
some companies engaged in manufacturing and selling cosmetics use black women as models to advertise beauty products.
revealing some beautyproducts as being intended particularly for black women use is the sign of neglecting other peoples rights to use a certain type of cosmetics.
the other stereotype is that black models are not permitted to enter sectors traditionally advertised by white women because it violates principles of beauty.
attempting to gain a profit, businessman, even those that are of color, use same race representatives to promote cosmetics such as dyes for hair or sunself tonners traditionally advertised by white women because it violates principles of beauty.
it implies that the use of white womens traditional attributes by females of color creates a certain feeling of inappropriateness because of their skin tone that makes cosmetics look different.
demonstration of racist attitude toward black women used to match the beauty of white women
the abovementioned business owners contribute to systemic racism, attempting to benefit from a widespread notion that black women are not as beautiful as white ones.
on the other hand, the prevalence of skin fairness products advertised even by brands that have black owners is a negative trend from the perspective of justice toward models of color and their dignity.
the perception of lighter skin colors as more attractive ones and insisting on the necessity for black women to match white ones are clear demonstrations of racism in the beauty industry.
it is known that black entrepreneurs actively use the beauty of black women for their own commercial purposes, as discussed previously, while also demonstrating racist attitudes toward their models.
the established racist tendency is supported by business people finding it more profitable to hire black models with lighter skin tones rather than fully black ones.
on the other hand, business people involved in the beauty industry are often neglecting the specificities of black models as they follow the latest trends intended for white ones.
entrepreneurs seek to use black women for advertising to demonstrate their beauty and attractiveness.
therefore, people in business need to think through and create advertising so that the community does not perceive advertising with black women as a confident racist attitude but treats them as objects of beauty and visual enjoyment.
making black more beautiful black women and the cosmetics industry in the postcivil rights era .