in the shipping business, the concept of crewing a ship with a culturally diverse crew is nothing uncommon.
2019, the critical role of understanding human factors and the importance of safety culture in the maritime sector is becoming much more topical p.
this work was written with the aim of studying the problem of cultural differences in the maritime industry.
according to oltedal and hvold 2018, the focus on safety culture took off when the term safety culture was used in the international atomic energy agencys iaea initial report following the chernobyl disaster, resulting in the iaea publishing a guide to safety culture in 1991 p.
poor grasp of english, incorrect categorization, differing knowledge of safety and workplace culture, and different attitudes toward risk have all been shown to contribute to major marine disasters and have an influence on a ships operating performance.
therefore, being tolerant and tolerant of diverse cultures ideas and practices, standing out against workplace harassment, and continuously developing about a person can make a difference are all effective ways to make businesses more diverse.
the united nations un has published various agreements via the international maritime organization imo that can be implemented by the fleets and patrol boats of countries that have signed the agreement defining these laws.
cultural challenges onboard ships have gotten more attention due to an increasing number of maritime catastrophes connected to insufficient engagement and misunderstanding of various behaviors on multicultural and multilingual ships.
most ships are registered at the national registration of the country where the owners live and conduct business formela et al., 2019.
the united nations un has issued a number of agreements through the international maritime organization imo that can be enforced by the fleets and patrol boats of nations who have signed the accords outlining these regulations.
as a result, being tolerant and accepting of the ideas and practices of other cultures, speaking out against workplace harassment, and continually growing about a person may make a difference are all successful strategies to make organizations more diverse.
the maritime business is one of the most regulated due to the approach of organizations and the danger of errors, which suggests that although the cultural difference is present in this environment, it affects only indirectly affect the result of the work.
culture and maritime safety.
culture and maritime safety.