features of the entry of a foreign insurance company to the uae market research paper
this report reviews the existing legal framework that regulates the activities of foreign insurance companies in the uae.
in particular, in its modern form, the law significantly facilitates the entry of foreign companies into the uae market.
the 2020 amendment declares that limited liability companies llc can be 100 foreignowned unless they are involved in strategic activities  uae amends federal companies law , 2020.
in particular, article 11 stated that only public joint stock companies may conduct banking and insurance activities  federal law no.
title 9 of ccl separately regulated the activity of foreign companies in the uae.
the most important aspect is to consider the recent amendments, as well as federal laws and decrees specific to the activities of insurance companies.
ccl regulates the activities of agents for foreign companies in the uae.
according to article 329, the agent is not financially responsible for the activities of a foreign company  federal law no.
on the contrary, they are completely independent entities that have the right to enter into contracts and are also responsible for losses during the partnership holman fenwick willan, n.d. at the same time, the parent company must comply with the regulations of the insurance authority and have a minimum capitalization to conduct business.
insurance company contracts are regulated by federal law no.
all companies conducting insurance activities in the uae are regulated by the insurance authority.
to be licensed, a foreign company must meet the provisions of article 4 of the insurance authority board of directors resolution no.
although the recent amendments have made it easier for foreign companies to partner with local businesses, these conditions do not apply to insurance as the activity with a strategic impact.
uae amends federal companies law .
uae companies law what do the amendments mean for your business and for new foreign investors?