turkish airlines company strategic analysis report
turkish airlines uses airbus and boeing models to ensure a high level of comfort and safety for all passengers mcfadyean et al.
turkish airlines devotes much attention to improving the high quality of its goods and services offered to clients.
moreover, it uses online channels to improve communication systems and ensure passengers can acquire information about services they need and book a flight turkish airlines, 2020.
turkish airlines also employs effective marketing strategies focused on popularising its products and attracting new clients.
at the same time, the company cultivates public relations by offering bonuses to loyal clients and encouraging them to use the carriers services again turkish airlines, 2020.
at the same time, turkish airlines analyze the target audiences experiences to improve the quality of postsale services and avoid numerous claims.
the ground and flight personnel are provided with strict instructions regulating their functioning, work with clients, and delivery of services turkish airlines, 2020.
additionally, turkish airlines digitalizes its environment to allow passengers an opportunity to use online services and enjoy the increased convenience of offered services turkish airlines, 2020.
the scope of renovations remains high, and one of the companys goals presupposes the continuous improvement of its technologies to be competitive turkish airlines, 2020.
altogether, it is possible to conclude that the internal environment of turkish airlines can be viewed as one of the factors leading to the generation of additional competitive advantage.
the company focuses on improving the quality of services offered to clients through innovating all aspects of its functioning, training staff, and using effective strategies to acquire needed products and deliver services to final users.
analyzing the external environment, it is vital to emphasize that turkish airlines functions in a highly competitive environment with multiple giant corporations struggling for clients.
at the same time, some companies, such as air arabia and etihad aviation group, plan to launch a new budget carrier focused on allowing cheap services to different clients atm team, 2020.
at the same time, there are still first and businessclass clients who are ready to use turkish airlines services turkish airlines, 2020.
the company offers different types of booking to meet diversified needs turkish airlines, 2020.
currently, the three main alliances, such as star alliance turkish airlines belongs to it, sky team, and oneworld, function to provide clients with safe and highquality transportation to different destination points crail and lupini, 2021.
at the same time, the stable and significant number of economy flights helps to create the basis for improvement turkish airlines, 2020.
at the global level, turkish airlines is one of the reliable carriers recognized by clients, which helps the organization acquire benefits.
it means that turkish airlines should have a specific plan focused on retaining clients and their acquisition by offering new services unavailable to other companies deveci, ciftci, and akyurt, 2020.
following these recommendations, turkish airlines can eliminate the existing drawbacks and create a new, modified, and new practical approach to its evolution shaw, 2011.
2019 a strategic marketing plan on air cargo expansion for turkish airlines.