the authors present the results of their qualitative research on the connection between interventions and medication administration interruptions and their impact on medication administration errors.
the information collected by the authors of the research reports quantitative data based on direct observations of interruptions or medication administration errors.
the studys strength concerns the fact that apart from the lack of statistics, the researchers found out that interventions might be an effective way to reduce the ratio of interruptions and errors during medication administration.
the authors define the main aim of the present research as improving the prerequisites of the old age patients medication safety by reviewing statistical data of medication errors in elderly treatment.
the results of the study prove that the most medication errors mentioned in the research concerned nursing competence, prescription and patientrelated factors, medication work organization and nursing process, and safety culture.
the strengths of the research concern the fact that the paper provides concrete data on the topic of medication safety of the elderly and the most widespread medication errors occurring during their treatment.
a comparative study at two australian hospitals of medication errors identified at audit, detected by staff and reported to an incident system.
the researchers methods during the study regarded the comparative analysis of the data on the electronically reported accidents on medication errors that occurred in the two hospitals involved in the research.
overall, the present study still proves that medical personnels lack of reporting medication errors is a significant problem for health care.
thus, the first study raban  westbrook, 2013 is devoted to the impact of interventions on interruptions and errors during medication administration.
however, the research results present weak confirmation of the authors hypothesis, mainly due to the limitations, which include the same medication institution for each of the ten studies the authors analyzed.
the second study metsl  vaherkoski, 2013 proves that the human factor involving nurse competence as well as work organization and the nursing process are among the key reasons for medication prescription and administration errors.
the results of the authors research prove that the main reasons for the work organizationrelated errors concerning ordering and delivery of medication lie in the lack of information exchange between hospitals, gps, and pharmacies.
it is the subject of the fourth study westbrook, li, lehnbom, baysari, braithwaite, burke, conn  day, 2015, which compares the number of medication errors identified during the audit with the number of the reported incidents.
however, one study raban  westbrook, 2013 on the effectiveness of interventions in reducing interruptions during the medication administration process provides insufficient data and may require further consideration and confirmation.
the present studies may help decrease the number of human factorrelated errors and improve the nursing process because they show the importance of attentive medication prescription and preparation and doublechecking medication administration.