the history of the united states drug enforcement administration dea began in 1915 when the bureau of internal revenue was established.
the majority of responsibilities for the dea remained the same over the years, with the only essential difference becoming the decision to separate general drug law enforcement into the federal bureau of narcotics and the bureau of drug abuse control drug enforcement administration, n.d..
the 1970s became a decade when the future dea started looking for a much more encompassing response to drug use because it was no longer seen as a trivial issue drug enforcement administration, n.d..
heroin and cocaine were placed under the control of the dea, but their efforts seemed to be ineffective due to the growing number of traffickers and the expanse of drugs.
the drug enforcement administration was founded in 1973 as the body that was expected to regulate compliance with the substance laws established in the u.s. drug enforcement administration, n.d..
thus, from its very conception, the dea was linked to the criminal and justice system of the u.s. in the 1980s, the emergence and the following widespread use of crack cocaine led to a drop in prices and the increase in the accessibility of the drug drug enforcement administration, n.d..
furthermore, the emergence of drug mafia aggravated the problem, making it more difficult for dea to address drug peddling drug enforcement administration, n.d..
in 1995, the mobile enforcement teams met was introduced to assist dea in performing its functions since, on the local level, the law enforcement resources were quite scarce drug enforcement administration, n.d..
this was one of the main reasons for the deployment of the controlled substances act csa that was intended to outline the distribution, dispense, and manufacturing of drug provisions that could be utilized or altered for illicit purposes tayabali et al., 2018.
the federal drug laws were evaded by the prosecuted individuals, but a search warrant on the criminals warehouse allowed the dea to restore the supply chain and prevent it from further expansion.
the controlled substances act as a part of the comprehensive drug abuse prevention and control act of 1970 was introduced in 1971 into teh u.s. justice sytem peterson, 2015.
as soon as the postal inspectors investigated the video surveillance evidence, the law enforcement agency in association with the dea was able to validate figueroas association with the packages containing drugs.
the determination of the dea officials allows them to consider numerous alternatives quickly and see how their actions could prevent other wrongdoers from engaging in more drug trafficking kemp et al., 2016.
one of the main reasons why the dea was extended outside the us was the origin of synthetic drugs that forced the government to contact other countries and ensure that mutually beneficial drug trafficking laws were enforced.
as one of the largest and the most successful antidrug bodies in the world, the dea remains a crucial force in the discussion on the topics of controlling drug trafficking and international drug capture.
the cases reviewed within the framework of the current paper prove that the dea was deployed at the right time and the right place since it paved the way for quite a few legal acts that mediated substance use and drug prescription.