perfluorinated alkyl acids pfaas are organic chemicals widely distributed worldwide, causing concerns about their adverse effects on human health and the environment.
industrial production and the use of perfluorinated compounds are surrounded by health and environmental concerns as they are found to have a high level of toxicity auer et al..
the study of the effects of perfluorinated chemicals on human health has found that local people living near duponts washington works facility had higher levels of perfluorooctanoic acid in their blood hu et al.
as such, these chemicals continue to contaminate human exposures to legacy pfass from seafood and drinking water are stable or increasing in many regions, suggesting observed declines reflect phaseouts in heritage pfas use in consumer products.
in 2002, epa issued a snur to require epa notification before any upcoming inventions, imports included, of the 13 pfas chemicals that constitute part of the voluntary pfos phaseout between 2000 and 2002 usepa n.p. december of 2002, and epa issued another snur where similar notifications were made relative to 75 pfas chemicals usepa n.p. in both instances, the snur gave provisions for limited continuation for the highly technical use of the chemicals where no existing alternatives were available.
in october 9, 2007, epa finalized a snur for notifications on 183 pfas chemicals that were believed to be no longer used or manufactured, imports included, within the u.s. usepa n.p. on october 22, 2013, epa made it a mandate for every organization using pfoa associated chemicals to document their use as part of carpets in treating carpets usepa n.p. the category was considered potentially harmful since the chemicals would impart water and soil and cause stain resistance usepa.
in 2015, the epa proposed a significant rule under the toxic substances control act tsca, where manufacturers, importers are included, regulating the use of pfoa and related chemicals usepa n.p. with the proposal, epa could assess every new use, and where necessary, actions were taken to limit or prohibit chemical use.
based on such limitation by the 2020 compliance guide, the house of representatives endorsed the july 2021 bill to designate pfass as harmful material usepa n.p. far from regulating pfas under cercla, the federal environmental laws would also be responsible for regulating pfas obrien  mark.