in the context of uae demographics, the population of dubai has been rightfully considered the most diverse in terms of age, income, and socioethnic background, as this city is a conglomerate for tourists, business visitors, and migrants from the asian region.
being the most populous region in the uae, dubai is mostly populated by middleaged residents from the 2539 age group, constituting nearly 1.5 million people statista, 2019.
the statistics above demonstrate that currently, there are no explicit issues in the access to such social needs as health or education, as the uae is capable of covering basic needs for the population.
although dubai and the uae, in particular, are considered the most progressive in western asia in terms of human rights, where women are legally allowed to gain education, drive, and work, women still struggle with a series of dehumanizing rights limitations.
thus, the actions of women in dubai still have to be supervised by their legal guardians represented by a male family member or husband human rights watch, 2021.
hence, it is reasonable to assume that the issue of womens rights has been central to the socioeconomic and cultural context of dubai.
2021, out of more than eighty board members of large dubai enterprises, only three were women.
it serves to address this issue and create a community of female leaders in the middle east and dubai, in particular, who would support young women to become the advocates of change out impact, n.d..
hence, considering these facts, it becomes evident that aurora 50 is a social enterprise capable of securing change in the womens representation on the board and in the business segment in general.
having closely investigated the demographics of dubai, i have reached a conclusion that the progress and economic prosperity still do not affect the social issue of representing women in the workforce.
when speaking of dubai, it becomes evident that while some public policies try to force the companies into engaging with women by implementing gender quotas on the boards, little is done to empower women to eliminate the social stigma and strive for career achievements instead of the guardians service.
princess latifa what are womens rights in dubai?