bullying and harassment in the healthcare workplace essay
bullying and harassment have considerable costs for enterprises, primarily due to increased turnover and sick leave lenprez et al., 2021.
the target perceives bullying as an act of aggression, which is an essential element of harassment.
workplace bullying also results in litigation, disability benefits, lost earnings, a negative influence on the companys reputation, and deterioration of the patienthealthcare professional connection adams  bryan, 2021.
given the harmful effects of workplace harassment on workers psychological health and wellbeing, and thus on the productivity of any business, it is critical to understand the factors that contribute to the origin and growth of this social phenomenon adams  bryan, 2021.
as a result, whereas early research mainly concentrated on the mental qualities of bullying and its targets, numerous groups have addressed a more serious look at the impact of organizational work and institutional contexts on individuals.
creating a project atmosphere where all employees are treated with dignity and respect and feel appreciated is critical to preventing bullying behaviors lever et al., 2019.
hospital management is advised to have regular interactions with any clinician who expresses concern about workplace bullying wpb.
the fight against workplace bullying involves joint efforts by hospital managers and researchers to identify other wpbpredisposing variables that are typically underreported in institutions lever et al., 2019.
physical bullying can have a significant harmful influence on patients, which is of great concern for healthcare practitioners munro  phillips, 2020.
bullying targets employees who are typically under the care of general practitioners, as well as female spousal workers with less education and children at home.
as a result, although the early study focused mainly on the mental characteristics of bullies and their targets, various organizations have given a more thorough look at the influence of organizational functioning and institutional environments on individuals.
the level of employment instability may impact the measurement of sensitivity to bullying, not only because relatively low expert workplaces generally hold unstable and transient vocations but also because uncertainty reduces workers perceived power over their superiors.
physical bullying may have a considerable negative impact on patients, which is a significant worry for healthcare providers.
the presence of workplace bullying and harassment worldwide.
bullying in the workplace.