some of the challenges that may be experienced when working with multidisciplinary teams include research elements that cannot be predetermined and a shortage of studies on design approaches for sustainability research.
however, to make a multidisciplinary approach in sustainable designs, these challenges can be overcome by collaboration between experts in creative design methods, diversifying opportunities for publishing creative explorations and sharing results and progress of sustainable development goals.
in a multidisciplinary team, it is important to promptly get feedback from different stakeholders and the people impacted by the building processes in a design building to ensure that sustainable designs are created within the framed period.
therefore, this shows the importance of integrating technology with other multidisciplinary teams to achieve quick and sustainable designs that can help in solving the urgent global issue.
it can be concluded that a multidisciplinary approach integrated with technology can save time by providing timely results on and sustainable designs yan et al., 2021.
this study will be used to provide a theoretical analysis of the impact of multidisciplinary responses in achieving sustainable designs.
the research wants to determine the effectiveness of multidisciplinary teams in making sustainable designs.
since one of the goals of sustainable designs is to save resources, this project proves that multidisciplinary teams can help save resources, allowing quick expansion of sustainable buildings because the resources saved can be used elsewhere.
although the study is more focused on simulation integration, it provides clear information on the importance of integrating technology and multidisciplinary teams in design planning.
according to the study results, genetic algorithms effectively brought economic optimization by minimizing energy consumption, which shows that the integration of multidisciplinary teams with technology helps solve the urgent sustainability challenge neuman, perrone,  mossa, 2021.
this shows that multidisciplinary teams integrated with technology lead to better decisionmaking and predictions that help sustainable design infrastructure.