united healthcare is an insurance provider that has declared the decision to promote the populations health as a part of its mission and vision.
this paper analyzes the balanced scorecard elements pertaining to united healthcares operations and offers to invest in the development of community health programs, such as the aging population program that targets older adults.
additionally, united healthcare should integrate mobile applications and services for health monitoring as part of its services since it helps reduce the number of visits to the care provider.
the factor of resource optimization is especially important for united healthcare because of the continuously increasing cost of care in the united states and the considering the mission of this business to address the healthcare needs of the underprivileged populations.
moreover, considering that united healthcare has already invested in purchasing companies that provide healthcare services directly to consumers, one can argue that the financial strategy of this organization is reducing costs by vertically integrating providers of varied care services, which will help substantially reduce the resource utilization and costs.
in terms of the internal business processes, considering the mission of united health, the company aims to integrate community and population health services into its process structure.
hence, having community health programs will be beneficial for united health because the organization will improve the health of the insured and uninsured populations, indirectly impacting the profits as people will need fewer services from health providers.
to change and improve, which are the main goals of the learning and growth element of the balanced scorecard, united health has to invest in practices that are analyzing the innovation within the healthcare market and the ones that test out population health improvement programs to implement the most effective solutions into its operations.
the best approach to reach the current objectives of united healthcare is to focus on the promotion of population health, which can be done through programs and sponsorships.
based on united healthcares directions strategy, one can conclude that quality improvements should be targeting the development of an integrated system where health insurance, health services, and population health promotion are all incorporated into the business process.
hence, the directional strategy implies developing services and products that will be distributed or offered to the general population and specifically the vulnerable communities to help them address their health care needs.
both innovation and community health needs are integral values of united healthcares work, which means that these recommendations align with the companys strategy.