smartex clothing ltd is a company established to engage in supplying sustainable materials to other organizations.
as a key player in the supply chain, the directors seek to implement practices and initiatives elevating optimal productivity while promoting preservation and protection of the environment.
the directors main role engulfs ensuring ethical adherence of business practice in the u.s. the duty of the operations manager entails focusing on procurement and supply of products to other institutions.
the distinctive duties and responsibilities include the delegation of responsibilities to management team, assessing the profitability scale and future of the institution, managing the organizational structure, incorporation of strategic initiatives to enhance competitive advantages.
the distinct duties of an operations manager encompass supervising, hiring, and training the workers, participating in the management of quality assurance programs, and incorporating strategic measures improving the processes inbound and outbound.
the skill set of an accountant in smartex clothing ltd enshrine critical thinking, time management, written and oral communication, system analysis, analytical skills, and mathematical reasoning and organizational learning.
the duties and responsibilities of a sales and marketing officer engulf engaging in customer service with potential clients and developing companys marketing portfolio, and developing a report for management team concerning consumption and competition pattern.
the duties and responsibilities of the procurement officer include developing cost parameters for the purchases, creating excellent relationships with suppliers and purchasers, and coordinating with the marketing officer in the development of companys online portfolio.
in conclusion, the management at smartex clothing ltd will ensure optimal productivity and motivation among the staff through dynamic strategic aspects.
in a different spectrum, workers participation in decisionmaking outlier enhances the proficiency in production process due to comprehension of the companys goals and objectives.