this is one of the burning concerns in global health care as antibiotics have enabled people to treat serious infections, but their effectiveness is decreasing due to bacteria growing resistance chokshi et al., 2019.
4. i will use the following keywords antibiotic resistance, causes and effects, and nursing.
for developed countries, the major contributors to increasing antibiotic resistance are the excessive use of antibiotics in farming and a low level of control over antibiotic use in healthcare facilities chokshi et al., 2019.
policymakers should develop regulations promoting the research on new antibiotics other ways to treat specific diseases chokshi et al., 2019.
the article in question is a reliable and valuable source of information for the proposed study on the causes and effects of antibiotic resistance.
for instance, li and webster 2017 also state that the misuse of antibiotics and the low pace of research on new antibiotics and alternative treatment measures are major causes of increasing antibiotic resistance.
2019 is a valuable source for my research on the causes and effects of antibiotic resistance because it provides essential insights into the primary contributors of antibiotic resistance.
although i was aware of the primary causes of resistance to antibiotics, the article helped me gain insights into the difference related to the contributors to the problem between developed and developing countries.
according to the results of the study, approximately 87 of antibiotic prescriptions were initiated in nh, 8.3 were started in an outpatient setting, and 4.6 were created in the emergency department pulia et al., 2018.
the article in question is a useful source for the proposed research as it provides detailed insights into a particular case of antibiotic misuse.
2018 are consistent with other studies on the matter, as the misuse of antibiotics in the healthcare setting is seen as one of the leading causes of antibiotic misuse li  webster, 2017 chokshi et al., 2019.
the article in question is a valuable source for the present research as it provides an indepth analysis of a particular case that illustrates the effects of antibiotic misuse.
the articles findings show that the current pharmacological practices have limited effectiveness and contribute to increased levels of antibiotic resistance durdu et al., 2019.
it is also noteworthy that this articles findings are consistent with other studies that display the correlation between antibiotic misuse in hospitals and antibiotic resistance.