folic acid supplements and psychotic medication during pregnancy essay
a case study within this project will help elaborate on using folic acid supplements among women using psychotic medications.
the findings of this study will help the researcher come to recommendations to improve the understanding of the relationship between the use of folic acid and psychotic medicines during pregnancy.
besides the impact of folic acid use on protecting against neural tube defects and other mental illnesses, it can also safeguard the mother and the unborn child from adverse health outcomes.
according to the centers for disease control and prevention 2021, the intake of the recommended dosage of folic acid during pregnancy reduces the risk of low birth weight, poor development in the uterus, cleft lip, and palate.
healthcare providers recommend consistent intake of folic acid supplements among women who have a higher risk of giving birth to a baby with neural tube defects.
consequences of folic acid overdose among pregnant women
the excess intake of folic acid supplements can use adverse side effects like slower brain development for children and fastened mental decline in older women.
altogether, the excessive intake of folic acid during pregnancy may affect the childs brain development, mask a b12 deficiency, speed mental decline, and increase cancer recurrence.
hence, it is essential to understand the impact of folic acid supplements on women patients using psychotropic medication during pregnancy.
the current metaanalysis found out that folate or folic acid supplementation improved the efficacy of depression treatment.
hence, folic acid supplementation may reduce the functionality of psychotropic medications
there is a literature gap in the published data on how folic acid intake during pregnancy might affect pregnant women on psychotropic drugs.
moreover, future studies should also explore how higher or lower doses of folic acid affect the effectiveness of psychotropic medications.
indeed, there is an increased need for how underdose and overdose of folic acid supplements influence the efficacy of psychotic drugs among mentally ill pregnant women.
recommendations women and folic acid.