notably, it focuses on the federal security service fsb and other agencies that have dealt with shifts during the cold war.
the book brings about passing interests to the agencies and publishing companies concerned with the quality of information made available on the internet and news media.
it is important to note that the book mirrors the aspects of misleading the public through giving wrong information that is the security agency systems.
while putin was in office, the federal security service consolidated much of the lost responsibilities like the military counterintelligence, and overseas electronic intelligence absorbed many initially retired kgb chiefs like the agents on active reserve marten, 2019.
at the same time, discussing the russian language website, soldatov 2020 suggests that counterintelligence agencies and hackers have utilized it.
works issued by reputable publishers and articles from established peerreviewed and newspapers formed the information regarding the safety of information in the russian counterintelligence services allen  peterson, 2020.
in particular, this information has provided an indepth knowledge of what happens in the counterintelligence agent services like fsb hosaka, 2020.
notably, fsb is a capable service since it has exposed various incidences of foreign spies employed by the intelligence services.
in high case profiles like foreign spying, the fsb sentences individuals to treason since most individuals usually obtain information through hacking and cyber cracking.
generally, the statistics in research suggest that fsb is capable since it has presented lists of different terrorist organizations that have been recognized by the court and published in the newspapers allen  peterson, 2020.
since the service was established during putins reign, the russian government has been able to get hold of military scientists that illegally gain information about the russian operations.
generally, the fsb is by all means capable of providing its services and has protected the russian territory from counterterrorism and foreign espionage zhuravel, 2019.
with this, it has been able to protect the russian republic and the information that might compromise the security of citizens.