this work articulates tools used in this process analysis techniques applied to innovative solutions, causeandeffect approach to risk evaluation, and strategies of investment decision analysis.
descriptive analytics entails the technique focused on analyzing past data, providing insights that can assist organizations in making decisions.
descriptive analytics can help with various population management tasks such as health data analytics el morr  ali hassan, 2019.
datadriven predictive analytics models detect patterns or relationships in historical data and then project the discovered relationships into the future greasley, 2019.
decisionmakers can effectively apply predictive analytics by performing the process of data mining and hypothesis testing dinesh kumar, 2017.
the occurrence of data loss has resulted in catastrophic impacts, most notable including disruption of the organizational activities in terms of daytoday operations.
several risks have been associated with data loss, which has proved costly for the organization to manage.
additionally, human access to machines can be controlled to manage intentional actions of individuals on data loss.
computer theft is the second humanrelated action that results in data loss.
it entails an actual loss of machines containing crucial data of the organization.
often, an employees loss of their laptop results in the subsequent loss of data or breach in security ponemon institute llc, 2018.
the occurrence of viruses commonly results in increased loss of data due to the destruction of the operating system.
damage to hardware may result in a total loss of data.
140,000 drives crash daily, resulting in a total loss of data stored on them, which indicates the vulnerability of this method  mohammed, ambak, mosa,  syamsunur, 2019.
to prevent data loss that results from hard drive damage, additional secondary storage should be attached to the system while keeping backup constantly and periodically.
power is critical in every organization an outage resulting in a sudden shutdown of servers and personal computers could result in total data loss.
for instance, floods, earthquakes, and tsunamis may directly result in the machine destruction and total loss of data.
furthermore, it identified data loss as the only problem and elucidated several causes.