aetnas digital business model framework essay critical writing
aetna is majorly an insurance provider that sells products directly to customers.
through offering life and other forms of insurance, aetna started in the omnichannel quadrant of the digital business model framework.
it can be argued that the acquired businesses are treated as providers of insurance products that can be sold by aetna.
through the digitization and acquisition of both local and international insurance companies, aetna has become a provider of a wide range of products offered through both digital and physical channels.
the digital platform for aetna may be predominant, but the company started as a traditional insurance firm with physical channels.
a similar approach has been used by the businesses to reduce competition  aetna and other large insurers acquire and enter other forms of strategic partnerships with tech businesses that offer digital services.
considering the digital evolution of aetna, it can be argued that the firm has made the necessary efforts to rate highly across all of the eight capabilities.
as discussed earlier, aetna started in the omnichannel quadrant where the key feature is several products offered through many channels, both physical and digital.
the current technological developments at aetna are evidence of how actively the company pursues the digitization of core services.
after developing digital competencies and capabilities, aetna can now effectively compete with other companies digitally through content, digital platform, and customer experience.
according to brohan 2017, aetna has continuously built out digital healthcare, often to deliver health insurance and related information.
additionally, brohan 2017 finds that even though only 2 of the overall us population bought insurance in 2016, consumers are increasingly using the web to purchase insurance, which is the primary motivation for aetna to continue building its digital platform.
another mechanism that aetna uses to compete digitally is the continuous improvement of the customer experience through content design and generation.