an investment portfolio can provide a client with sufficient income, savings, security, and raise the standard of living.
as the client agrees to diversify his investment portfolio, investment in several local and abroad companies can satisfy his needs.
the client stated that he is working and ready to average risk thus, he has the potential to replace losses and might be offered to invest in a more significant number of companies.
for a more aggressive investor who is potentially ready to risk current returns and expect future growth in the value of shares, it is an excellent solution to allocate a part of the capital for risky investments.
as the client prefers his investment to be saved in a money market fund, it is vital to examine its possibilities.
money market fund is similar to etf these both are tools for collective investments when investors money is held in the funds portfolio.
furthermore, the client is comfortable investing in the best 100 companies listed on the london stock exchange.
according to its list, it is profitable to invest in rolls royce holdings, melrose, prudential, whitbread, and other companies london stock exchange, 2022.
according to the clients desire to invest in the uks largest companies, jd sports is the best choice to provide stability and constant profit.
as the client wants no more than 10 percent of the total funds invested in one company, it might be recommended to look at the abovementioned table.
the client wants a minimum of 50 percent of the uk equities investment to be hedged using market futures or option securities.
it is necessary to briefly recall the abovementioned steps planning and assessing the current situation in the market and world, identifying investment objectives and desirable profit, allocating assets, purchasing components for portfolio, and protecting assets.
moreover, the abovementioned strategy takes risks into account and explains how to avoid them it also examines the best options for longterm and shortterm investments in money, securities, real estate and provides with best companies listed on the london stock exchange.