for that reason, the emergence and implementation of family theories and models in nursing are highly effective.
in this paper, calgary family assessment and intervention models cfamcfim, as well as the family health system model fhs, will be discussed.
the choice of these two theories was validated by the scope of their application for a variety of family health cases, their extensive presence in the academic literature, and the relevance of these models concepts to clinical practice at multiple levels.
2020, the cfam enables nurses to comprehensively assess current family strengths, resources, problems, and illness suffering through targeted questions that assess family structure, development, and function p.
finally, at the level of functional evaluation, the model provides the basis for obtaining and compiling the information about family functioning and the interaction between family members leahey  wright, 2016.
indeed, cfim provides an organizing framework for the nursefamily relationship and for a therapeutic conversation offered by nurses using specific family nursing interventions e.g., interventive questions, commendations that target the systems level that offers the greatest opportunities for family health and healing zimansky et al., 2020, p.
essentially, this model includes the guidelines and system of different types of questions within three domains of family functioning that might be used for interviewing the family members at the stage of intervention suggestion and validation.
apart from the questions, the model involves such interventions helping address the cognitive domain of family functioning as commending family and individual strengths, offering information, and externalizing the problem.
according to anderson 2000, the creator of the model, the fhs offers an integrated way to examine family dynamics, family strengths, and family concerns in health and illness across the lifespan p.
in order to validate the effectiveness of fhs as a comprehensive and integrative nursing practice framework for quality work with family systems, one might introduce a case study to which the model will be applied.
in summation, the analysis, comparison, and case application of family theories demonstrated that the implementation of a thoroughly developed nursing practice framework helps nurses to provide structured and balanced family care.
cfamcfim and fhs are both effective and integrative models which allow for a complete assessment of family problems and solutionfinding.
thus, when using fhs in family nursing, professionals can benefit from a clear and concise framework that incorporates multiple domains of family functioning to identify family concerns, strengths, anticipated outcomes, and relevant interventions.
application of the calgary family assessment and intervention models.