social interaction for mental health and wellbeing research paper
using different methodologies, this study aims to establish whether social interactions can positively or negatively affect the mental health of individuals.
therefore, this research proposal aims to review previous studies and conduct research on the effects of social integration on mental health and general wellbeing in a criminal justice system.
isolation and social ties in prison settings are shown to increase mental health disorders among prisoners.
this research aims to evaluate how social interaction affects mental health and wellbeing in criminal justice.
therefore, the relationship amid alienationisolation with mental health disorder is well recognized in general health works, with the vigorous relation between social support, social integration, and individual health clear et al.
sugie and turney 2017 found that inmates with lesser equal finish may have a better alteration and the resulting health than individuals who develop strong social ties to other prisoners.
certainly, outcomes from prior two studies that researched the inmate social integration in association with mental health discovered little confirmations to support healthpromoting influences of social integration in jail.
2017, showed that social integration of peers was not connected to the better mental health of the inmates.
most researchers discussions are focused on the relationship between social integration and inmate mental health.
this study surveys how social interactions affect mental health and general wellbeing based on criminal justice.
as a result, it promotes an understanding of how inmate clusters are related to a set of demographic, conduct, and mental health attributes, as advanced by karim et al.
to examine the connotation between inmate mental health and social integration, a multistep technique will be adopted.
these findings are expected to enable individuals to delve into the finest details of how social interactions impact the mental health and wellbeing of inmates in criminal justice.