diabetes vulnerability, resilience, and care essay
therefore, the goal of choosing diabetes is to enhance an understanding of this condition and develop an effective care plan for diabetic patients.
people who have diabetes spend more time in hospitals and require improved inpatient and outpatient care nikitara et al.
personal and healthcare needs are increased due to diabetes, and nurses have to pay attention to patient education, holistic care, and support.
nurses work with diabetic people to examine facilitators and barriers in care, promote health, manage the disease process, prevent complications, and explain selfmanagement basics.
jack neglected the necessity to evaluate family history because of limited knowledge about diabetes management, which is a significant protective factor in a care process lv et al ., 2020.
if diabetes is a chronic condition that contributes to the persons disability status and makes him vulnerable, the chosen theoretical framework allows understanding adults capabilities for selfmanagement perry et al ., 2015, p.
jacks experience and diabetes management may be considered through eight stages in eriksons theory of development.
the development of an appropriate care plan is critical for jack and his diabetes management tactics.
a person with type 2 diabetes is at risk of getting several severe conditions that challenge human health, including kidney failure, cardiovascular diseases, neuropathy, blindness, and mortality cole and florez, 2020, p.
at this moment, jack should be educated on the diet standards to be maintained because obesity contributes to diabetes, challenges blood sugar levels monitoring, increases blood pressure, and provokes new heart problems.
as such, there are two main aspects of health, obesity and sugar blood levels, that may be affected by diabetes and managed by nursing care scottish intercollegiate guidelines network, 2017, p.
in jacks case, diabetes cannot be cured for good, and the goal of a care plan is to manage the symptoms, monitor the level of blood sugar, and predict the growth of adverse conditions.
in diabetes care, nurses perform the role of educators to help people understand their new condition, the specifics of the disease, possible complications, and complications lawler et al., 2019.
jack needs more information about the two concepts, diabetes and physical activity, and the nurse is the most reliable and nearest source.
a holistic care approach was offered to jack because it was necessary to combine selfmanagement steps like regular physical activities or blood sugar level monitoring and cooperate with a nurse to be educated and counselled properly.
national institute for health and care excellence 2015 type 2 diabetes in adults management .