codeine pharmacological activity, side effects, and dependence research paper
it has a significant analgesic effect with a predominant effect on the cns and the ability to cause mental and physical dependence drug addiction.
most people who become addicted to codeine start using the drug for medical reasons.
an estimated thirtythree million people use codeine each year approximately fourandahalf million americans reported nonmedical usage of prescription painkillers, including codeine, according to the 2018 national survey on drug use and health.
when simultaneous use with drugs with cns depressant effect including opioid analgesics, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, clonidine, enhancement of codeine action is possible.
with ibuprofen, the analgesic activity improves with carbamazepine, the analgesic effect may increase, apparently due to the higher forms of the codeine metabolite normorphine, which has a stronger effect cairns et al., 2016.
the usefulness of poppy for pharmaceuticals is that codeine, morphine, and papaverine extracted from poppy capsules are used to produce analgesics, sleeping pills, anticough, and antispasmodics cairns et al., 2016.
side effects caused by codeine are divided into more and less severe.
although there is no or decreased clinical efficacy for pain relief, side effects associated with codeine administration may be noted for some time.
the ideal option when prescribing codeine would be to perform genetic testing of patients to rule out ordering this drug to slow and ultrafast metabolizers.
dependence caused by codeine can cause toxic impacts due to the overuse of those drugs with which it is combined.
drugs containing codeine have a mild effect, unlike other painkillers.
this increase is associated with the rapid development of tolerancespecific resistance to the effects of codeine and the need to use inscriptions in increasing quantities to obtain euphoria.
for codeine addicts, naltrexonebased medications could be administered they block the brains opioid receptors and thus prevent the addict from enjoying the drug.
measures should be aimed at removing mental dependence psychotherapeutic techniques are a compulsory component of the complex treatment of codeine addiction norman et al., 2016.