for example, tesco has faced protests from customers urging the company to drop those suppliers dubbed forest destroyers, which implies those businesses whose actions are leading to massive deforestation across the world kirkman, 2021.
the focus of this paper is to explore the conflict involving global meat production and its link to deforestation and to evaluate tescos response to the issue from a stakeholder management perspective.
in this case, deforestation is the conflict, which attracts such stakeholders as tesco itself and its suppliers, customers, governments, pressure groups, and native tribes whose habitats face destruction.
therefore, tesco and its suppliers are automatically among the primary stakeholders in this conflict.
as major stakeholders, the conflict outcome depends on how tesco and the suppliers respond to the pressure from other stakeholders.
a commentary on tescos food problem given by willoughby 2021 explains this dilemma where the company and its suppliers need to offer adequate products to meet the demand and at the same time remaining environmentally sustainable.
the independent environmental campaign organization has been targeting tesco on many occasions, especially because tesco is associated with many south american suppliers directly responsible for deforestation.
deforestation is a conflict that also draws in governments across the world, especially where deforestation takes place or where tesco operates.
some of the key responses by tesco, as will be examined later, have included beseeching the uk government to help in controlling businesses associated with deforestation just food, 2020.
for tesco, all businesses approved by the south american governments can become potential suppliers, which creates a conflict of interest.
the main question from this response is whether the companys commitment extends to actively discouraging the suppliers from deforestation or tesco simply makes statements without actions to follow up on the matter.
deforestation and the destruction of tropical forests have placed tesco at the centre of a global backlash and conflict.
overall, all stakeholders agree that deforestation must stop and the rogue suppliers must be eliminated from tescos supply chain.