the influence of brexit on automotive industry in the uk essay
in 2019, the uk automotive industry lost 9 of its volume due to brexit holweg, 2019.
moreover, there are no quantitative studies that compare the effect of brexit on the uk automotive industry and on the uk economy in general.
brexit had a higher negative impact on the uk economy in general in comparison with the impact on the uk automotive industry as perceived by the uk business students.
the purpose of the present research is to compare the effect of brexit on the uk economy in general and on the uk automotive industry in particular as perceived by the uk business students.
it has three sections with a total of 11 questions, including three questions on demographics, four questions on the impact of brexit on the uk economy, and four questions on the impact of brexit on the uk automotive industry.
the first variable was brexits impact on the uk economy, and it was measured as a sum of answers to questions q4q7.
the second variable was brexits impact on uks automotive industry, and it was measured as a sum of replies to questions q8q11.
a paired sample ttest used to compare brexits perceived effect on the uk economy m  13.06, sd  4.52 and brexits perceived effect on the automotive industry m  12.9, sd  4.41 revealed that there was no statistically significant difference between the mean of the variables t30  0.47, p  0.687.
this implies that the perceived impact of brexit was similar on the uks automotive industry and the uks economy in general.
the results of the analysis revealed that students perceive the effect of brexit on the uks economy in general, and the uks automotive industry was similar.
at the time, there was a higher uncertainty about the effect of brexit on the uks automotive industry.
while the results revealed that there was no statistically significant difference between the perceived effect of brexit on the uks economy and its effect on the automotive industry, the results cannot be considered reliable.
this research demonstrates that the uk business students saw no difference in the effect of brexit on the uks economy and its effect on the uks automotive industry.
another interpretation of the results of the present research is that the uk business students saw a high dependency between the tendencies in the uks automotive market and uks economy in general.
brexit and the uk automotive industry.
q8 i think that brexit had a negative impact on the uk automotive industry.