social, economic and environmental challenges of urbanization in lagos essay
in developing countries, better infrastructure and access to services lead to urbanization which has adverse challenges on populations and the environment.
however, the citys rapid economic growth has led to high population density due to urbanization, creating social, economic, and environmental challenges the challenges include poverty, unemployment, sanitation, poor and inadequate transport infrastructure, congestion in the city, climate change among others.
the lagos administration needs effective planning measures such as proper governing systems, population control and improved transportation infrastructure to ensure the sustainability of the city.
lagos has the most rapid population growth in west african cities due to its rapid economic development.
in lagos, urbanization comes from ruralurban migration, naturally growing populations in the city, politics, and economic processes that demonstrate urbanization about lagos, 2021.
given the citys governance, it is challenging to create sustainable change regarding social, economic, and environmental issues.
due to urbanization, the population growth has led to more dependents in the city with limited jobs available to cater to all individuals aliyu and amadu, 2017.
although urbanization contributes to the inadequacy of transportation services, the leading cause of lagos inadequate transport services despite having the best roads and waterway systems is corruption and poor management.
the citys roads have poor infrastructure due to poor maintenance by the federal government, which is responsible for urban developments afolabi, akinbo and akinola, 2019.
the citys solid waste management became a significant issue after the emergence of oil industries that led to urban development and population increase, resulting in increased waste causing significant environmental hazards gneralp et al ., 2017.
apart from solid waste management, the city has deficits in urban sanitation due to increased populations
finally, lagos faces environmental challenges in the form of poor sanitation, unclean water, poor solid waste management and air pollution.