employing over 168,000 people and providing services to over 45 million people, unitedhealthcare is the 2nd largest insurance company in the country mcfarlane, 2019.
swot analysis helps to generate numerous ideas about how a company can improve its current performance leiber et al., 2018.
the framework analyses four categories of performance indicators, including business operations, finance, customers, and growth, to set desired goals quesado et al., 2018.
the average industry asset turnover ratio for 2020 was used as the benchmark value for the indicator.
the average employee turnover rate in us hospitals for 2019 was taken as the benchmark value for unitedhealthcare inc.
the indicator is measured using the companys market share.
14.2                         the current market share of the company was taken as the benchmark value.
the idea behind the value is that unitedhealthcare needs to have higher than the current market share, which is 14.1 statista, 2021.
gap analysis for unitedhealthcare is provided in table 3 below.
the gap analysis above demonstrates how much the companys current performance differs from the benchmark value provided in the scorecard analysis.
first, the companys asset turnover ratio is significantly higher than the industry average, which implies that the company does not need to be concerned with its current asset use efficiency.
third, the customer satisfaction index is only slightly below the desired values, which implies that the company can take its time to select the most appropriate strategy to improve the index to match the leader in the industry, humana asci, 2021.
finally, unitedhealthcare is already the leader in market share, which implies it does not need to urgently improve its current position.
it would be beneficial to further increase the quick ratio above the industry average to the value of 1, which demonstrates that the company can cover its current liabilities without using outside funds.
unitedhealthcare needs to maintain and systematically review current policies related to asset use efficiency, as it is currently one of the leading companies in the industry in terms of asset turnover.
the company needs to improve its current customer service quality, including compliance, assurance, reliability, tangibility, empathy, and responsiveness, to improve the customer satisfaction index janahi  al mubarak, 2017.
strategic leaders formulate the companys vision, mission, values, longterm objectives, and strategies for achieving the desired results smith  cockburn, 2021.
a strategic leader needs to be a driver for change who can create relevant change management strategies to move from the current state to the desired state smith  cockburn, 2021.
finally, a strategic leader needs to have outstanding industry competence to ensure a high level of expertise in achieving desired results.