food safety modernization act and its importance essay
2. food safety modernization act and its historical importance
because of the increasing concerns about the food safety outbreak of foodborne diseases and other food contamination in the united states, sophisticated inspectionbased procedures based on accurate detection technologies are necessary to ensure that food is free of hazardous colors.
this paper will argue how the food safety and modernization act has helped to prevent food supply contamination.
food safety modernization act and its historical importance
the fda dramatically reduces the public health burden by reforming the food safety modernization act.
for example, the fda food safety modernization act fsma empowers the agency to safeguard public health by upgrading the food safety system zhang  seale, 2017.
these are some of the ways the fsma act increases food safety for american citizens.
the fda is developing a method for implementing the food safety modernization act fsma across the nation.
apart from implementing policies to ensure food safety, the food safety modernization act requires the fda to have the tools necessary to react effectively to any concerns.
the food safety modernization acts provisions have guaranteed that americans have access to safe foods.
in the united states, the food safety modernization act has lowered the cost of treating food poisoning infections.
as a result, the food safety modernization act and the food and drug administration have helped reduce the supply of contaminated food and, hence, make american citizens food safer.
implementation challenges of the food safety modernization act evidence from a national survey of produce growers.
produce growers cost of complying with the food safety modernization act.
food safety modernization act putting the focus on prevention .
the food safety modernization act fsma .
the fda food safety modernization act at 10 reflecting on our progress and the path forward.
food security and the food safety modernization act.