the specific literature touches on high tobacco use rates and limited quitting attempts, successful methods, sustaining cessation effects, and barriers for practitioners and patients.
the model involves five steps asking patients about their smoking status, advising smokers to quit, assessing quitting willingness, assisting smokers through referrals and treatment, and arranging follow up to support cessation martinez et al., 2017.
while the model is effective in identifying smokers and facilitating cessation, health workers only perform the first three steps and neglect the last two martinez et al., 2017.
sixtytwo percent of schizophrenia patients in the study group were current smokers, while 37 of bipolar disorder patients and 17 of patients without any md were currently smoking dickerson et al., 2018.
the practitioners also reported that 32.2 of their smoking patients have md, and 41.8 of all documented uk smokers have mental illnesses simonavicius et al., 2017.
attempts to quit smoking among mental health patients are limited and only initiated upon hospitalization hecht et al., 2019.
for patients with md, varenicline has been established to facilitated cessation and abstinence after two years without adverse effects on the patients mental conditions taylor et al., 2020.
2020 found that smokers with mental health illnesses on varenicline had a 19 higher chance of quitting than those on nrt but the difference was smaller for patients without md.
most importantly, the researchers noted that the methods were more effective on smokers with md than with those without md loreto et al., 2017.
although nrt alone increases quitting rates by 50 for smokers without md, mental health smokers require highly intensive and engaging methods, necessitating the need to include group cbt to nrt treatment loreto et al., 2017.
the researchers also recommended enrolling smokers with md into nrt treatment, which is widely accessible across the country hecht et al., 2019.
the care providers lack enough resources to facilitate learning and improvement of treatment of smokers with md simonavicius et al., 2017.
practitioners expressed little information relating to the 5as implementation, the connection between smoking and psychiatric disorders, tailoring cessation efforts to smokers with md, and interaction between md and smoking treatments simonavicius et al., 2017.