green steel production technology assessment report
1. this information denotes that australia seeks new technologies that reduce carbon emissions, and green steel production is among them.
thus, the given report attempts to present the assessment of the green steel production technology.
finally, the report will present conclusions that will summarize the data and provide recommendations as to whether green steel production is efficient technology.
green steel production is a new technology that offers to revolutionize the process of steel manufacturing.
finally, direct reduced iron technology is the third way of producing steel, and it uses methane gas allen and honeyands, 2021, para.
this information demonstrates that the discussed green steel technology can help australia make a valuable contribution to fighting against the greenhouse effect.
in addition to that, the green steel technology can help australia maximize its potential.
this statement implies that the country produces 38 of the worlds iron ore and only 0.3 of the worlds steel because shipping the raw material is cheaper for australia than to use it in manufacturing wood, dundas and ha, 2020, p.
it is worth admitting that green steel is not the only technology that can be used to reduce co2 emissions.
the use of biomass with coal is another technology that can be used instead of green steel production.
it has been found that green steel production can result in the fact that australia will deal with a cheaper manufacturing process, which will lead to some economic benefits.
it is also worth admitting that relying on the green steel technology will create a positive image of australia, which will enhance the countrys international relationships.
consequently, the comparison of the alternate technologies supports the suggestion that green steel production is an appropriate and practical approach to reduce carbon emissions and result in positive outcomes for australia.
furthermore, the comparison of alternate technologies has revealed that green steel production using hydrogen instead of coal is an optimal decision for australia to manufacture steel and avoid harming the environment.
that is why the technology assessment reveals that the australian government should keep investing efforts and resources in introducing green steel production.
2017 production of green steel through green manufacturing using most innovative green and cleaner technology, international journal of engineering sciences  research technology, 64, pp.