thesis statement  shortening the delivery chain is the most effective and optimal way to condense the delivery time in the semiconductor industry affected by the covid19 global crisis, as it allows businesses to stock semiconductors, comply with us regulations regarding chinese manufacturers, and have the transport means used unchanged.
when discussing supply chain management issues, many contemporary authors focus on the gaps that avert organizations from attaining highquality logistics and manufacturing.
such perspectives on supply chain management are crucial because they emphasize sustainability and the interconnectedness of businesses choi et al., 2020 kumar et al., 2017.
the fact that researchers take different scenarios and investigate the process of supply chain design shows that experience and cumulative knowledge are crucial for a better understanding of how to shorten the delivery chain while remaining in line with the corporate objectives and current supply chain principles gracht  darkow, 2016 speranza, 2018.
the first recommendation that underlines the importance of shortening the delivery chain for manufacturers of semiconductors is the expansion of collaborative planning.
another reason why shorter delivery chains could benefit semiconductor manufacturing is the existence of various suppliers that have to be managed by constructors.
the increasing popularity of semiconductor manufacturing across the globe makes it crucial to shorten the value chain and remain consistent in terms of releasing new products continually.
a foreseeable response to relevant changes in the industry is going to shorten the delivery chain in a natural way, allowing manufacturers to implement green initiatives without slowing down any of the existing processes.
even though the job itself remains the primary focus for many organizations, a shortened delivery chain can be best developed and deployed within an environment where supply chains are capable of such activities kumar et al., 2017.
the semiconductor industry might benefit from shortened delivery chains because of the increased efficiency of the given transportation system choi et al., 2020.
from logistic planning to the execution of the product development strategy, constructors have to pay attention to the supply chain and its dispersion grade centobelli et al., 2017.
shortening the delivery chain is the best possible solution for many manufacturers of semiconductors because of the consistent growth that the industry sees, even in light of the covid19 pandemic.
these challenges could have an irreversible influence on semiconductor manufacturing supply chains and their responsiveness to global market alterations.