this paper will provide an indepth analysis of the case study focusing on the problems facing tuftsnemc and the approaches the organization used to position itself for change.
when an organization informs employees of the need for change, it is called awareness.
to develop and sustain and sustain change in the organization, reinforcement is needed.
essentially, organizations do not change due to new systems or processes rather, changing the status quo necessitates individuals stepping into a new direction that conforms with their values and principles karp  reavey, 2019.
to effectively challenge the status quo, leaders must assess the market data, act to complete tasks, and distribute the vision of change across the organization.
hence, zane and bdc performed a rapid diagnostic to assess how to stop the losses as early as possible and change the organization.
these challenges were successful because zane determined the organizational problems and developed a strategy to introduce organizational changes.
according to mckim and goodwin 2021, organizations indicate, classify, and support patterns of change that emerge from collaborative efforts within disequilibrium.
the agenda for change was launched in 2004 by zane, shottland, and bdc as the second round of costcutting and efficiency plans to improve tuftsnemcs processes ingols  brem, 2016.
the organizations efforts were successful because changes were implemented, including the sale of a building to tufts university for 28 million, which provided muchneeded capital, costcutting initiatives, and improved managed care contracts zane began to develop a future strategy.
to summarize, ellen zane has successfully brought a change to tuftsnemc by employing appropriate approaches.
leaders must assess market data, act to accomplish projects, and spread the vision of change throughout the organization to effectively challenge the status quo.
zane conducted a rapid diagnostic to determine how to halt the losses and change the organization.