the holy month of ramadan the practice of fasting research paper
the obvious point to begin this understanding is the five pillars of islam  the religions core tenets, including the muslim creed, charity, pilgrimage to mecca, prayer, and fasting on the holy month of ramadan.
this paper will cover the latter to stress ramadans significance in islam, religious and social practices associated with it, and the lessons that people may mean from studying this pillar of the muslim faith.
another purpose of fasting during ramadan is to make people more conscious of things they often take for granted.
while fasting may be its most notable element to an external observer, ramadan is about much more than not eating and drinking during daylight.
charity for the poor, or zakat , as it is known in arabic, is a fullfledged pillar of islam in its own right, just like fasting on ramadan.
this is why, for many muslims, ramadan is not only the time of fasting but also that of charity.
overall, fasting and eating during ramadan coexist in dualistic unity, and the act of partaking in foods and drinks may have as much symbolical importance as abstaining from them during the day.
numerous studies on the subject have not found any meaningful correlation between fasting during ramadan and the development of eating disorders dzeker et al., 2019 hasan et al., 2020.
moreover, the increased discipline and selfcontrol promoted by fasting may contribute to the development of healthier eating habits and, thus, impact ones health in the long term, even beyond ramadan.
to summarize, ramadan is the holy month in the islamic lunar calendar, during which the believers fast from dawn till dusk.
moreover, the values that ramadan fasting aims to promote are largely universal and, as such, may contribute to better understanding between people of different religious backgrounds.
is ramadan fasting correlated with disordered eating behaviors in adolescents?
ramadan the practice of fasting .
a qualitative exploration of motivations for fasting and the impact of ramadan on eating behaviors and body image among young adult muslim women in the united kingdom.