online communication is considered more helpful than harmful because it facilitates connecting people quickly in different places, makes peoples lives more accessible, and promotes things that would generally be impossible to publish to ordinary people.
the new wave of many digital communication channels has been leading to many curious questions wonder whether it will change the way people interact in the near future, or will online communication positively or negatively affect consumers?
the chief advantage of online communication is the possibility of communicating with people who locate in different parts of the world in a short amount of time.
furthermore, it is unfair not to mention how video conferencing, one of the types of online communication, connects people while maintaining social distancing during the global pandemic.
furthermore, online communication makes life more accessible because it can help people learn and develop.
consequently, online communication makes life more accessible because technology allows people to become more educated.
it is also worth admitting that online communication is helpful because it contributes to the fact that ordinary people have access to information that they did not previously know.
on the other hand, the covid19 pandemic has demonstrated that online communication can help preserve social contacts when it is impossible to meet personally because social media allows for interacting with peers uhls et al.
at the same time, having a clear understanding of the options that digital tools provide and the characteristics that make line communication different from offline one, users of digital tools are likely to find online communication quite helpful.
therefore, there are no substantial reasons for defining online communication as harmful on the contrary, the opportunities that it provides for connecting people can only represent it as extremely helpful.
although there is virtually no difference between online and direct communication in terms of quality or fulfillment, the efficacy of online communication as the tool for maintaining the dialogue consistent and offering the participants an opportunity to communicate at any point in time despite the presence of geographical boundaries must be recognized as a massive advantage, which makes it undoubtedly helpful.
the use of social media and online communications in times of pandemic covid19 , sage journals, 2020, web.