said observes that the global perception of the islam community is significantly influenced by the newspapers, mainly from the united states, that have orientalist representations said 1981.
this research paper investigates if saids claim that orientalism is dominating the newspaper media is valid or not.
orientalists barring muslims from entering the united states
several newspapers have referred to cases of muslims facing discriminatory treatment fueling the debates on orientalism and confirming saids notion of the media.
in the united states, newspapers have highlighted cases where the political right has generally shown greater distrust of islam and muslims than the political left.
saids definition of orientalism also cautions that the extremist using the media to brand middle east muslims as the enemy before the invasion is also valid.
recently, a rightwing populist campaign that expressly called for a ban on muslim immigration, american views toward islam and muslims became an extremely contentious issue khan et al., 2019 da silva  hall, 2022.
orientalism is also evident in several newspapers published beating the drums of war between the united states and the muslim world in the east.
the prejudice is that american muslims are incapable of patriotism since islam sets them against the united states key, 2022.
also, newspapers have published that immediately after 911, the default assumption was that all muslims were evil and potential terrorists until they demonstrated their commitment to the united states and its war on terror chicago reporter, 2021 khan et al., 2021.
saids perspective on orientalism is based on the notion that the united states is secure in its power and that the media is overemphasizing supremacy.
the debates introduce ideas of patriotic muslims coming forward to distinguish themselves from terrorists by openly pledging allegiance to the united states and its dominating ideals beauchamp, 2021.
these are orientalists in the united states using the media further to marginalize the muslim minority in the united states.
orientalists in the united states fear the increase of muslims in the military.
newspapers have gone to the extent of publishing debates on the calls for muslims serving in the military to prove their allegiance and share their knowledge on islam extremism bayoumi, 2021 gunter et al., 2021.
it tries to exclude or deport anyone considered muslim on the prejudiced notion that they are violent potential terrorist adversaries of the united states of america zimmerman, 2021.
the ban can be defined as orientalism, the executive order that restricted entry to the united states for persons from primarily muslim nations and several african countries.
some media make little effort to protect innocent muslims, failing to specify the individual interest in terror reporting said 1981.
saids claim that orientalism dominates the media is valid considering the number of reputable newspaper publishers who have orientalist representations of the middle east.
saids claim that orientalism dominates the media is evident in the select newspapers and should inform the changes in media content.