bendicion nursing care and rehabilitation is a facility that focuses on providing longterm care and rehabilitation for residents in new york city.
furthermore, the facility is fully compliant with centers for medicare  medicaid services cms regulations and guidelines, making it a reliable and convenient location for longterm care.
consequently, regulation 483.10 outlines these rights succinctly to ensure that all registered longterm care facilities follow them centers for medicare  medicaid services, 2006.
at bendicion, regulation 483.10 will be applied fully at all times to support residents as they recover or receive treatment at the facility.
further, no party shall be compelled to stay with another, either by a resident or the facility, in the case that they choose to remain alone despite their marital status centers for medicare  medicaid services, 2006.
in such cases, an interdisciplinary team must assess the individual requests and provide the necessary support to ensure that such individuals properly take and store any medication under their care centers for medicare  medicaid services, 2006.
regulation 483.12 covers the admission, transfer, and discharge of patients in facilities certified to provide longterm care.
these include instances where the patient no longer requires support by professionals, becomes a danger to a staff member or other residents, fails to pay for services, or in case the facility closes down and ceases operations.
the right to readmission will be available for all residents in the facility based on applicable bed hold policies as set out in the state plan.
further, all services in the facility must be provided to all patients based on their assessed needs and in line with their care plan centers for medicare  medicaid services, 2006.
staff members are trained to take necessary action to ensure that patients do not become a danger to themselves or others within the facility centers for medicare  medicaid services, 2006.
benediction will not tolerate any form of abuse towards residents by ensuring that staff members and other individuals working in the facility are aware of the regulation.
these regulations, as stipulated above, form an essential part of protecting patients during their stay in longterm care facilities.
adherence to these standards will ensure that the facility can continue offering wholesome, caring, and efficient care to residents, thus providing a high quality of life.