consequently, most judicial decisions are obvious outcomes reflecting the legal arguments, presented facts, and the judges ideological commitments.
it encompasses judges interpretation of the law through the observance of the established legal constraints and the exercise of judicial choices in making determinations.
this suggestion implies that judges are, by law preprogrammed to deliver obvious conclusions through the objective interpretation of the applicable legal provisions klaasen 1.
harris and sen 242 illustrate that variations in judicial decisions and reasoning do not necessarily indicate an underlying bias but could depict judges reference to such factors as context, purpose, rationale, and value of the law.
political neutrality in judicial proceedings impedes judges ability to enrich their decisionmaking by adopting a valueoriented interpretation of the law.
for instance, kennedy argues that political neutrality may limit the adjudicators view of the peculiar circumstances of a given case because the law requires that decisionmakers follow a specified direction.
to this extent, kennedy dismisses political neutrality in adjudication processes and argues that adopting such an attitude converts legal interpretation into a mechanical application of existing laws.
kennedy posits that political neutrality in judicial proceedings is a type of legal formalism that should be rejected due to its disregard for such realistic aspects as shared prejudices between judges and their fellow men.
according to klaasen 2, political neutrality would impede the ability of judges to resolve disputes in instances where the existing laws do not provide direction or clearly defined guidelines.
these views illustrate the realistic aspect of kennedys rejection of political neutrality in judicial proceedings, which converts adjudicators to mechanical interpreters of the law.
although judges should not be limited when making judicial interpretations, allowing political neutrality could potentially expand their interpretive powers and destabilize the primary objective of the laws.