aster dm healthcare firms strategies to deal with covid19 report
aster dm healthcare responded to this call by enhancing its political, economic, social, and technological innovation strategies to meet covid19 demands.
additionally, aster ensures they regularly monitor their legal environment, renew their business licenses, and follow and comply with all government and healthcare rules and regulations of their operation geographical regions  aster dm healthcare , n.
the covid19 pandemic has allowed aster dm healthcare to diversify its business model in various ways.
the involvement of aster dm healthcare in corporate social responsibility csr had enhanced the economic environment for its community and the populations across their geographic locations.
aster dm healthcare responded to the covid19 pandemic by ensuring they watch all of their capex and operation costs pti, 2020.
aster dm healthcare has continued with its social strategies in enhancing its healthcare services in its regions of operations.
aster has continued to maintain a healthy relationship with their healthcare workforce and patients during this pandemic and to advance their social initiatives and developments to revolutionize the healthcare industry of the middle east  aster dm healthcare, n.
even during the pandemic, aster dm healthcare has constantly fulfilled its brand promise of ensuring quality healthcare is accessible to all its patients and communities across its region and in northern africa moopen, n.
the social initiatives of aster dm healthcare through aster volunteers during the covid19 pandemic have allowed for its recognition and honored with two prestigious awards  gcc states aster dm healthcare honored , 2020.
aster dm healthcare institutions have adopted artificial intelligence, virtual healthcare management, and telemedicine to battle this pandemic.
additionally, aster dm healthcare has initiated a free covid19 247 support centre for its patients and indian citizens.
aster dm healthcare implemented its economic strategy by making the necessary economic adjustments to efficiently operate in the financial crisis caused by the covid19 pandemic.