the growing trend to adopt healthy eating habits due to the pandemic has led people to embrace the mediterranean diet due to its simplicity in preparing and the easy availability of ingredients.
the proposed menu incorporates the mediterranean diet approach by focusing on a twocourse meal that will contribute to various nutritional benefits to an individual.
the appetizer selected for the recipe is cream of mushroom soup, while the main course is boston lobster mafaldine.
first, the meals have to be prepared using modern culinary techniques.
for the mushroom soup, the mushroom soup is prepared, and then parsley is added through foaming, while sous vide cooking is used for cooking the lobster for the boston lobster mafaldine.
the ingredients for the appetizer are meant to eradicate this observation and reduce the time and money of people looking to prepare a healthy soup.
if the meal being prepared is for four people, then the time will be 16 minutes.
after preparing the cream of mushroom soup, an individual is presented with a creamy, fluffy, and moisttextured meal.
one can face several challenges when preparing the cream of mushroom soup.
while cooking mushrooms, many people may overcrowd the pan to incorporate different ingredients.
although the recipe mentions a whole lobster, the tail will be used to prepare the main course.
first, lobster meat is cooked sous vide at 80f for 30 minutes.
the texture of the meal is firm and chewy, an important factor that reveals the amount of protein present in the lobster tail.
the common challenges present when preparing boston lobster mafaldine range from overcrowding, overseasoning, overlooking the steps, and overcooking.
overcrowding, like the appetizer, is common when preparing lobster mafaldine pasta.
although people may have their idea of the perfect boston lobster mafaldine, their final versions may differ from the current meal.
for instance, the mediterranean diet promotes healthy eating habits, which suggests that marketing it to people who do not follow healthy eating may not work.
it also means that the mediterranean diet is not constrained to a unique age bracket, as any individual can find the right meal to sustain them papadaki et al., 2020.