officers trained on catastrophe management and victim identification from each force often have to report to their independent heads, making the operation slow and discrete taylor et al., 2019.
consequently, williams  wienroth 2014 reports that some of the forces operating under the acpos dvi system lack some necessary tools and financial abilities to meet their obligations.
better still, the lack of standard operating procedures and a regionwide database, too, make acpos operations limited johnson  riemen, 2019.
208 argue that disaster victims from one region take time to be identified in another part of the u.k. due to the issues.
recognizing international victims involved in the u.k.based disasters or u.k. citizens involved in calamities elsewhere worldwide is also challenging due to the acpos issues loveday, 2018.
the policy, for example, stands out in that it helps in setting background procedures for police officers concerned with disasters to work together, though not as they should johnson  riemen, 2019.
a look at the acpos influence relative to other regional or international police collaboration schemes aids a lot in identifying specific ways that acpos can improve, especially on the issue of biometrics and human identification de boer et al., 2019.
there is a need for acpos to create a room for the u.k. police unit concerned with disaster management to share biometric information databases with other international bodies such as interpol.
ellis 2019 says that possessing global biometric data will make identifying foreigners involved in disasters within the u.k. easy compared to presently.
succeeding in this area also implies an easy time for the international disaster management units to identify victims from the u.s. karagiannis et al.
such, therefore, necessitates that acpos adopt an international forensic information database to protect the u.k. citizens better and to become a significant player in the international disaster management platform.
the role of forensic anthropology in disaster victim identification dvi recent developments and future prospects.