like any other facet, ecommerce exhibits both beneficial and harmful effects on the environment, thus requiring moderation.
the ecommerce business model operates differently from the traditional brickandmortar structure that requires vast parcels of land and a large workforce traveling to the offices every morning.
therefore, having people work from home makes the ecommerce model beneficial to the environment by reducing harmful transportation emissions from commuter vehicles.
therefore, ecommerce is highly beneficial to the environment due to its ability to eliminate paper reliance and waste from businesses.
lastly, ecommerce promotes digital storage while eliminating reliance on warehouses that require a large workforce and emissive machinery that harms the environment.
consequently, the replacement of large environmentally unsafe traditional storage techniques with digital storage methods proves ecommerces benefits to the environment.
ecommerce promotes unregulated buying and excessive order volume relative to the traditional model of business.
consequently, emissions from returning vehicles and the waste resulting from the handling and repackaging of items prove ecommerce is a real threat to the environment.
the ecommerce models requirement of a reduced workforce and excessive competition to the brickandmortar companies, leading to their closure, contributes directly to unemployment and environmental harm.
such activities cause much harm to the environment therefore, the excessive pressure that online business causes on natural resources by supporting unsustainable demand makes the models sustainability questionable, thus the need for moderation.
the following discussion covers some examples of sustainable ecommerce models utilized by various businesses.
the rise in consumer demand during the ecommerce era puts significant packaging pressure on businesses.
therefore, advancements in research and the rise in consumer preferences towards environmentconscious online companies promote the adoption of ecofriendly packaging devices that stimulate the ecommerce models sustainability.
transporting commodities acquired online through ecommerce to consumers contributes to the highest environmental harm due to emissions.
the ecommerce business model exposes companies to unbearable competition, making the investment sector significantly unsustainable.
lastly, ecommerce eliminates large warehouse requirements as businesses result to producing ondemand items using techbased manufacturing strategies.
ecommerces tendency to remove brickandmortar businesses from the market contributes to employment, pushing people to survive on environmentally harmful activities.