the table below shows the budget estimates for beta and alpha pcs centers.
laboratory and professional expenses have been allocated on a ratio of 64 for alpha and beta centers respectively.
due to a large number of estimated visits, the alpha center will also incur more administrative, laundry and cleaning, administrative expenses, and salaries compared to the beta center.
the beta center will however incur increased advertising costs compared to the alpha center to increase the number of its annual visits.
the variable expenses include advertising, laboratory services, staff benefits, computer support, insurance, legalaudit, professional services, depreciation, and bad debts.
fixed expenses include salaries, administrative expenses, collection fees, consultants, laundry and housekeeping, medical supplies, printing and postage, telephone, and utilities.
this will cause the revenues from patients to increase and the profits per center in 2018 are likely to be higher.
this shows that during the first month, its cash inflows will be limited since the majority of its revenues are generated from medicare and medicaid which make payment after 30 days.
table 4 webster hospital debt analysis
the debt to asset ratio of the webster hospital in 2007 before the acquisition of a longterm was at 36.54.
from table 4, webster hospital has 90 days in account receivable and 218 days in current liabilities.
the webster hospital will incur interest of  335,031 annually over 10 years.
the additional debt for capital expenditure will improve the hospitals and thus increase their revenue.
thus, webster hospital will incur lower borrowing costs by the use of highrated bonds to finance its expenditure.
after 5 years, the middlesboro community hospital will be expected to incur a capital expenditure to purchase new surgery equipment.
after 7.5 years, middlesboro community hospital will need to purchase new equipment, thus increasing its expenditure and thus reducing its net profit.
this means that majority of patients revenue for the middleboro and webster hospitals is paid by employerbased insurance covers.
timely insurance payments will enable the hospitals to meet their monthly expenses and thus ensure quality service delivery.
this, in turn, can attract other employers to implement health insurance covers that favor the middlesboro community hospital and the webster hospital.
this will ensure that even though its income from one employerbased insurance scheme has declined, there is a way to ensure the hospital does not incur extra expenses.
thus, the employers will be expected to ensure that most of their employees seek healthcare services from the middlesboro community and webster hospitals to ensure they enjoy discounts on the number of employees who seek healthcare services from these hospitals.
an increase in account receivables of the two hospitals will increase expenses for account receivables thus reducing the incomes of the hospitals in the long run.
the hospitals may then be forced to implement strict policies to ensure that account receivables do not increase such as requiring payment before service delivery for patients without health insurance coverage.
table 6 budget estimates for beta and alpha centers