thus, the people are finding ways of reclaiming, maintaining, and regarding their indigenous cultures and traditions through indigenous resurgence.
this paper discusses the daily activities that indigenous people in canada practice for the resurgence of indigenous culture, knowledge, and traditions.
simpsons stories give historical knowledge and demonstrate how particular communities relate to their land traditionally, which offers a possibility for indigenous resurgence through reflection and daily practices of the customs.
sharing a peoples culture and traditions is an essential move towards a resurgence of indigenous knowledge and skills.
local people have made storytelling a daily activity for a resurgence of indigenous knowledge and traditions.
in canada, indigenous people can have a cultural and traditional resurgence by educating the young generation and interested natives about their history borrows, 2019.
embracing ones culture and traditional practices is another form of establishing indigenous resurgence.
however, the need for an indigenous resurgence of culture and traditions has led the tribe to revisit their practice as an everyday activity towards reclaiming their lost heritage.
indigenous resurgence also involves reclaiming traditional boundaries, the communitys natural resources, and land use resources.
members also hold and celebrate traditional and cultural ceremonies to remind indigenous people of their heritage and the importance of passing it to future generations.
indigenous resurgence involves culturally, socially, and politically reclaiming and regenerating a particular communitys heritage.
the indigenous community in canada has daily activities which have the potential to bring a resurgence to indigenous knowledge and cultural activities.
the daily practices include storytelling, learning the culture and history of a community, sharing cultures, customary parenting, and traditions locally, and reclaiming traditional boundaries from colonial jurisdictionsstorytelling involves modern and traditional ways of passing information.