2. additionally, depressive disorder is related to manifestations of fear and anger, as well as symptoms of anxiety guillotvalds et al., 2019.
for the therapist, this scaling allows to assess the general picture of the patients psychological state and obtain a result that is suitable for measurement.
additionally, this scaling helps to determine not only the presence or absence of symptoms of depression but also to assess their severity preliminarily.
the definition of norm scores for a scaling instrument allows you to determine the influence of background factors on the test results.
cronbachs alpha allows you to evaluate how each of the items included in the test meets the purpose of the assessment.
in the case of a testretest reliability study, it is also necessary to select a model corresponding to the type of icc questionnaire qin et al., 2019.
therapists can also use this scale for individual rapid testing of vulnerable groups or people who suspect symptoms of depression.
within the proposed scale, the main characteristic of the respondents may be the suspicion of the presence of symptoms of depression.
if the scale is applied to a wide audience for individual testing and not for a specific group, the results can be generalized only if the respondents are statistically divided into such groups.
however, since the purpose of testing is to confirm or refute a suspicion of depression symptoms, the results can be generalized to people who suspect they have a depressive disorder.
it is necessary to collect data on a specific group of respondents, for which the patterns of manifestation of symptoms of depression have already been established.
in this case, using cfa, it is possible to find out how much the choice of a particular answer to each item correlates with the frequency of manifestations of symptoms of depression.
4. the evaluation includes an assessment of validity and reliability, as well as a comparison of test and clinical examination results.
in this case, cutoff scores provide an opportunity to determine the severity of symptoms of depression and preliminary assess the patients condition.
the results of the questionnaire can inform patients about the need to see a professional to identify symptoms of depressive disorder.
thus, a high percentage of confirmation of the results obtained after testing with clinically identified symptoms is the main criterion for the quality of the questionnaire.
is the hospital anxiety and depression scale hads a valid measure in a general population 6580 years old?
reliability and validity of the basic depression questionnaire .
reliability and validity of the geriatric depression scale in italian subjects with parkinsons disease .