the battle of ia drang was the first large military engagement in the vietnam war between the forces of the united states army and the peoples army of vietnam pavn.
the battle, known for its first largescale helicopter assault and consistent air support, established the model of further military engagements by american forces and their tactics in the vietnam war.
the purpose of this paper is to analyze the historical event of the battle of ia drang from the perspective of the operational art and design concept, joint planning, and other appropriate joint doctrinal publications.
operational art is the cognitive approach used by military leadership utilizing their capabilities and judgment to develop strategies and operations to utilize military forces through the integration of ends, ways, means, and risks based on available information.
the three stages of the american campaign were designed to secure bases and l.z.s for the deployment of forces, conduct deep patrolling in the vicinity of base areas, and conduct longrange searchanddestroy operations against enemy forces.
some of the end states for the engagement were a full defeat and pushback of pavn forces in the ia drang valley to prevent any further potential or planned assaults on u.s. camps and airports.
finally, the battle was meant to be the first primary engagement of u.s. troops with the nva forces, marking a major escalation in the vietnam war given that previously the u.s. engaged solely through bombardments or south vietnam proxy forces warren, 2017.
the objectives for the forces participating in the ia drang assault included securing key points such as landing zones in the area.
culmination refers to the point at which a military force is unable to perform its operations.
for the u.s. forces in vietnam, the operational center of gravity was its airports and the points dislocation for the aerial forces, critical to the u.s. strategy in the country and vital support for any troops on the ground.
as a stronger force, the u.s. fighting abroad faced a much higher chance of decisive victory, the shorter the duration of the conflict, both the ia drang assault and the war in vietnam in general.
in a manner of speaking, the blitzkrieg type of warfare would have benefited u.s. forces while simultaneously achieving all key objectives of pushing back the pavn, protecting military bases, and establishing positions of control in enemy territory.
therefore, the strategic risk was weighed, that either the operation continue or the u.s. would be defeated before the war fully began with attacks on south vietnam.
the campaign provided a clear indication to defense secretary mcnamara that success in vietnam would be unlikely due to the heavy casualties to u.s. forces proportionally based on the type of operation, but despite his recommendation, pres.
the purpose of the paper is to analyze the historical battle of ia drang from the perspective of joint operations and the concept of operational means, ends, ways, and risks.