barnes  noble in the bookseller industry research paper
the purpose of this study is to answer the research question how can barnes and nobles future as the most renowned bookseller in the industry be secured?
barnes and noble should employ combined marketing communications to advertise their products and services and focus on email and social media to inform those in the college demographic.
he performs narrative research on sharing concerns about minority education in philanthropist millers interview.
his refreshing ethnological methodology relates to the study of the poor minority representation in barnes and noble.
creswell 2016 also influenced the study by explaining setting standards for research methodology.
through her book, barnes  noble business analysis, gregorys scholarly works have been crucial in the research proposal.
her research methodologies have employed the approaches available for responding to problems or problem situations.
this research will utilize methodologies such as observational research, interviews, focus groups, and content analysis.
through participant observation, the researcher was able to assess actual performance during the study time.
given the need for multiple interviews, which are frequently conducted by more than one researcher, as well as the comparison and contrast of internee feedback requirements in barnes  noble caf, the semistructured survey, which coupled continuity and flexibility, was the most useful most structured dialog for this evaluation.
a semistructured investigation used an interview guide with a core set of openended inquiries and expected followup questions to guarantee that the researcher asks all respondents a minimal number of identical queries in order to obtain meaningful, comparable qualitative information.
furthermore, the researcher was able to use this interview approach to ask spontaneously constructed questions in order to corroborate the participants responses and to report back on three new, noteworthy subjects provided by the participants.
focus groups were indeed employed to conduct research and collect data from a diverse range of people with varying points of view.
focus groups are a sort of group interview used by academics to collect information on under researched subjects where the full range of varied domains is undiscovered and the complex interplay among respondents is of interest.
to guarantee the secrecy of the participants and to offer a comfortable environment for discussing ideas, this study avoided including persons at different levels of rank and within administrative hierarchies in focus groups.
a standardized openended interview will be employed, and therefore, this guide format will facilitate comfort since they match my experience in the barnes and noble caf.