one of the main reasons why quality improvement initiatives have to be considered essential within the framework of healthcare is that they give patients an opportunity to experience highquality care while communicating their concerns to team members.
overall, the rationale behind this quality improvement project is to implement an interprofessional perspective and engage all possible stakeholders in the process of enhancing patient care.
based on the information regarding adverse events that occurred between the years 2014 and 2015, it may be concluded that more detailed interventions are necessary if vila health expects to improve patient care and satisfaction.
quality improvement initiatives require the administration to collect more data on the subject and ask for relevant feedback from team members and patients.
despite the limitations related to the quality of data obtained by vila health and restricted reporting from nurses, it may be essential for the organization to ask for more stakeholder feedback.
scarce symptom management and high pain level benchmarks have to be included in vila healths agenda to help the staff provide highquality services while also creating room for patient satisfaction stacey et al., 2019.
as long as the vila health team members are able to modify these two benchmarks, they will have the capability of improving hospital processes and enhancing the process of communication among nurses.
with more staff members and patients interested in telehealth, the vila health organization is going to broaden its horizons and correct plentiful mistakes related to care provision and data analysis.
the management could go even further and interview nurses and other care providers in addition to key stakeholders, to gain insight into their personal outlooks on quality improvement and recognize the best ways to implement change.
with the help of interprofessional perspectives, the vila health staff could engage in quality improvement initiatives that include the opinions and worldviews of multiple individuals.
some of the roles that should be present in vila healths quality improvement agenda are nurses, physicians, and executives.
in line with the proposed quality improvement initiatives, nurses will be required to look into how they could improve the quality of care while also maintaining effective interprofessional relations murdoch et al., 2017.
even though there were no data sets uncovering the failure of the vila health organization to deploy essential benchmarks, an interprofessional view of communication and patient care is going to reduce the number of delays homeyer et al., 2018.
from the point of view of the vila health organization, this could be an opportunity to achieve costeffective care and improve its quality of it by addressing pitfalls related to patient outcomes wei et al., 2020.
quality improvement initiatives instigated by vila health could significantly benefit from supplementary benchmarks in addition to pain levels, symptom relief, inpatient admissions, and the length of stay.