analyzing both qualitative and quantitative data will answer the research question what diversification opportunity would best meet the needs of sunrise farm and its current customers?
the choice of the mixed type of data analysis is justified by the assumption that neither a qualitative nor a quantitative analysis of networked tourism are able, separately, to provide a meaningful outcome mariani and baggio, 2020, p.
qualitative and quantitative data must be collected for research and a mixed approach.
the research objective is to understand the needs of customers and potential customers to sunrise farm  sunrise farm interview transcripts , n.d, p.
quantitative data was obtained through the sunrise farm visitor questionnaire, which was collected in april, august, and november 2019  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. the information it contains will enable the collection of more structured statistics that can complement qualitative data.
in particular, shops and cafes are of interest to 90 of all visitors, although the interviews emphasized the cafe  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. 62 of visitors come with their families and only 20 with children, which indicates the need to focus on a more diverse age group  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. fruit and berry picking has a fairly high seasonal demand among visitors  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. quantitative data also identifies that 90 of visitors use a car to get to sunrise farm  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. the maze is of interest to a third of the visitors and is also unpopular among visitors without children  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. additionally, the results of the survey made it possible to identify visitor preferences that were not presented in the interview.
analysis of qualitative data made it possible to identify the current attitude of customers towards the company and determine possible directions of development.
analysis of qualitative data allowed determining that sunrise farm needs to attract tourists from other regions or countries of europe  sunrise farm interview transcripts , n.d. slocum and curtis 2017 note that diversification for small agricultural enterprises is often associated with insufficient funding, and partnerships with other regions can mitigate this obstacle.
the qualitative data obtained confirms that sunrise farm attracts predominantly british people from adjacent areas  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. thus, the opportunity for diversification can be noted, which was identified using the mixed method.
in particular, it is important not only to create more attractive places for teenagers to visit but also to involve them in permanent employment on the farm and participation in the agricultural business  sunrise farm interview transcripts , n.d. moreover, rural areas are more financially selfsufficient to prevent the departure of more rural young people liu and yen, 2017, p.
in particular, the increased seasonal demand for fruit picking supports the need to develop job opportunities and develop agritourism  visitor questionnaire data , n.d. at the same time, the qualitative data identified dissatisfaction with the prices of organic products and quantitative interest in the local store  sunrise farm interview transcripts , n.d visitor questionnaire data , n.d. at the same time, the development of agriculture will allow visitors to participate in farming activities and, through the development of the local economy, reduce prices slocum and curtis, 2017.
qualitative and quantitative data analysis also identifies this need the need for a bus is noted in the interview the survey results identify that most people use cars to reach sunrise farm  sunrise farm interview transcripts , n.d visitor questionnaire data , n.d. however, this point is more a concern of the tourism policy of the region and the country as a whole rather than a separate enterprise.
in particular, 17 of those surveyed noted they would like to be able to interact with farm animals, which also reflects the current trends in farming diversification  visitor questionnaire data , n.d how british farmers , 2019.
the analysis made it possible to identify opportunities for diversification and development of sunrise farm.
in particular, the quantitative and qualitative data collected underscore the need to improve the rural economy, expand interregional cooperation, focus on agriculture, and provide visitors with animal contact opportunities.