however, while objections to states rights enforcement and enactment of federal civil rights laws might have gained limited traction after 1964, they did not mean racist confrontation to protection ceased.
going back to the civil war, shelby county was the only restatement where arguments by the federalists were deployed in ways that firmly maintained systematic racial injustice and inequality in the u.s. the restatement in shelby county s leading republicandominated states echoes rickers explanation that federalism only serves to promote racism, which translates to the destruction of freedom.
further, despite the constitution providing for equal rights for all, the liberty of the africanamericans was dependent on compliance by the federal states on the national policy.
thus, the federal states power and influence, specifically those in the south, became the veil in the employed doctrine that facilitated the states first to defend slavery then civil tyranny.
the africanamericans rights, resulting in freedom, to a great extent, remain restricted by the respective federal governments throughout the country.
relative to the civil rights movements, the pace federal governments worked with played no significant role in realizing the call for changes by the africanamericans.
moreover, according to grodzins, the sheer force employed in persecuting africanamericans in their movements for civil rights was also facilitated by federalism.
the inability by the southern states to safeguard the blacks and their supporters was evident in the violence associated with incompetent and undemocratic federal states.
courtesy of the 1954 case between brown and the board of education , the southern states encountered a violent epidemic against civil rights proponents and africanamericans.
specific to the africanamerican community in the country, the whites in the southern states employed the features of federalism in keeping slavery while defending civil tyranny.
hence, the answer proves that indeed federalism has been employed, particularly by federal states, to discriminate and oppress blacks in the u.s. and, as such, agree with the sentiments by william ricker.