unitedhealth group incorporated is a managed healthcare company that has operated both in the us and global healthcare market for more than forty years, becoming one of the leading medical service providers worldwide.
the phenomenon of political stability is one of the fundamental factors to consider when analyzing a company, as it serves as a catalyst to the development of either a beneficial or detrimental operational environment for a business.
since the majority of the companys income derives from monthly insurance premiums paid by unitedhealthcares clients, it is necessary to establish the extent to which such public policies as the affordable care act of 2010 influence the enterprises pricing and trade decisions.
hence, according to the world health organization who, 2019, public regulations play a vital role in managing managed care providers, as health care costs, mostly incompatible with the populations standards of living, are prioritized in the global political agenda.
thus, for example, unitedhealthcare is largely regulated by the provisions of the patient protection and affordable care act ppaca, which means that no less than 80 of the companys income should be further spent on health care and quality improvement initiatives in order to secure better nationwide insurance coverage us centers for medicare  medicaid services, n.d..
hence, one of the primary benefits of the companys target market is high population rates, as unitedhealth group, inc.
considering the countries in question, the poverty rates in the state vary between 15 and 20, and such an indicator is by no means beneficial for the company, as health insurance plans, although aimed at aiding people below the poverty threshold, do not benefit from such policies world population review, 2021b.
according to the 2020 legatum prosperity index world population review, 2021a, only the uk and the us are included in the toptwenty states with the best health care, with all other states being significantly behind.
such a pattern is not optimistic for the company, as lack of access to health care combined with the generally high prices for the service is likely to widen the existing socioeconomic gap and negatively affect the managed care company.
being a leading managed care company in the us, unitedhealth groups, inc.
is a leading multinational managed care company that places emphasis on the secure processing of healthcare insurance plans for the population.
having considered the external factors that influence the companys position in the market, it becomes evident that currently, even in the context of the pandemic, unitedhealth group inc.