global competitiveness analysis the u.s. manufacturing industry essay
at the same time, in the last 1015 years, the united states also had been experiencing a certain loss of world leader position in product manufacturing industry.
this paper analyzes the state and prospects for the development of the manufacturing industry of the u.s. in a global perspective.
the modern u.s. manufacturing industry is a large diversified complex, which includes more than 350 thousand of enterprises producing various products in a wide range of industrial activities.
the main trend in manufacturing industry in the united states of the last 1015 years remains such an overall growth in volume of production amid a decrease in the share industries in gdp.
for example, in 2008 and 2009, there was a resounding drop in production volumes in the u.s. manufacturing industry.
as a result of these factors, there was not only a restructuration of the global manufacturing industry and a redistribution of products flow of the industry, but also a change of directions in foreign trade.
this allows them to successfully compete with world leaders in a number of product niches of manufacturing industry, primarily, in the field of hightech industries and advanced technology.
at the same time, the importance of manufacturing industries in accumulated direct foreign investment in the united states is significantly higher than in the similar u.s. investments abroad.
direct foreign investment in the u.s. manufacturing is broadly diversified and includes, for example, the chemical industry, food production, transport mechanical engineering, and many more other sectors.
the authors of the study imply that firms in the manufacturing industry would have better financial performance when focused on fostering real investment.
the u.s. government is supporting private manufacturing enterprises directly with the federal budget through public procurement and various development programs, as well as through adoption of special laws aimed at promotion of individual industries.
flaaen and pierce 2019 state that u.s. manufacturing industries more exposed to tariff increases experience relative reductions in employment as a positive effect from import protection p.
the weakening of the position of american companies in the world hightech product markets, budget constraints in stimulating research and development, and the political processes decreased the global competitiveness of the u.s. manufacturing industry.