this has led to the development of milk devices that aid farmers and dairy factories to process and preserve the product.
dairy plants have evolved to use equipment that facilitates processes like milk manufacturing, pasteurizing, packaging, storing, and transportation.
they have improved dairy farming since the plants can manage to process the amount of milk produced.
around 1917, the private dairy farmers presented milk products to their consumers in their locations rankin et al., 2017.
scientists and technologists have been working to improve the milk processing procedure and the content of the products.
some of the current knowhow used is aimed at lowering cost, increasing shelf life, and separating the component products of milk akbar et al., 2020.
some of the current technologies used in the milk processing plant are discussed below.
the milk processing plants use the midinfrared examination method to determine the composition of the product akbar et al., 2020.
during the analysis process, a sample of the milk products is taken and analyzed by infrared technology to determine the content of moisture in the milk powder, bulk, and temperature shinde et al., 2018.
currently, milk processing industries are using some species of microorganisms to facilitate the production of fermented products.
the main reason for applying the dvs cultures in the milk processing steps is to increase the production at a relatively lower time.
it also enables the dairy farmers to eliminate the threat of bacteria present in milk products.
this equipment is used to heat the dairy products to a considerable temperature that is suitable for killing the pathogens that might be present in the milk.
this equipment is used by dairy farmers or milk processing plants to separate skimmed milk and cream.
they increase the effectiveness in the processing of milk and enables farmers to reduce cost.
the machine makes it easier for the dairy farmers to lower labor and have different composition of the milk products.
researchers and agriculturalists should do some studies on how the different combinations of feeds would improve the quality of milk products to minimize industrial processes that complicate the process capstaff  miller, 2018.
there has been a constant rise in the need for milk and other dairy products, which has made farmers to actively involved using the modern equipment to sustain the supply.
technology has made it easier for dairy farmers to handle a large volume of milk at a time.