this community assessment will address the city of orlando, florida.
it is a city in central florida with a population of over 300,000 individuals united states census bureau, 2021.
total population numbers of orlando, florida, as of april 1st, 2020, is 307,537 individuals.
orlando citys mortality and morbidity rates are not too different from state statistics.
covid19 is the only pandemic currently affecting orlando city florida health, 2020.
orlando city offers a broad variety of healthcare services available to the population.
the majority of the communities in orlando city have a primary care center or a kind of other medical facility within 15 minutes of their location.
availability of care to individuals with insurance and those eligible for medicare and medicaid is slightly higher than average in florida and the us access healthcare of orlando, 2022.
orlando citys social services are presented by the orange county social service department, which is a government agency providing services for residents of the city.
education orlando city provides options for primary, secondary, and postgrad education.
vulnerable populations vulnerable populations in orlando city include homeless, migrants, and the poor.
the city also has over 2,000 homeless individuals orlando, fl, area economic summary, 2022.
analysis of community assessment healthy people 2030 health indicators state that social determinants of health include economic stability, educational access, health access, neighborhood and built environment, and social contexts healthy people 2030, 2022.
priority community health issue in orlando city is obesity.
organizations involved in the proposed interventions have to have the medical expertise required to educate the population, provide healthy foods and alternatives to fast food, and provide assistance to those already affected by obesity.
orlando department of healthcare  oversight, financing, provision of information regarding the city and its population.
city of orlando.
orlando city, florida.