the purposes of the study is to make surgical patients less exposed to surgical cite infections ssis and improve the quality of their lives and to assess nurses understanding of evidencebased prevention of surgical site infections.
the objective is to find methods that would allow to do that with practical evidence from operating rooms and to describe how nurses knowledge is related to selected sociodemographic factors.
the research question is how can operating room nurses use evidencebased care in prevention of surgical site infections and reduce patient exposure to them.
the article entitled the persistent breach between evidence and practice in the prevention of surgical site infection portrays the possibilities of the intraoperative prevention of ssis by operating room nurses.
the article called intraoperative prevention of surgical site infections as experienced by operating room nurses examines what factors may stand in the way of implementation of ssis prevention practices.
the article called compliance and barriers facing nurses with surgical site infection prevention guidelines deals with difficulties nurses may face in trying to act according to the instructions.
the article entitled jordanian nurses knowledge of preventing surgical site infections in acute care settings dwells on the nursing practice regarding the factors influencing caregivers knowledge of evidencebased care to prevent ssis.
these articles answer the picot question of whether operating room nurses could use evidencebased nursing care to prevent surgical site infections and reduce patient exposure to these issues.
the key advantage of a crosssectional study employed by qasem  hweidi 2017 and mohsen et al.
both expected and actual outcomes state that quality nursing care is crucial for reducing the number of ssis among surgical patients both underline the necessity of practical experience in additions to theoretical knowledge.
jordanian nurses knowledge of preventing surgical site infections in acute care settings.
intraoperative prevention of surgical site infections as experienced by operating room nurses .
compliance and barriers facing nurses with surgical site infection prevention guidelines .