4. multinational corporations in sustainable development
the assertion that the global corporate social responsibility csr activities of many multinational corporations mncs are failing to make a sufficient contribution towards sustainable development sd is true.
iso 260002010 was developed to help mncs achieve sustainable development through a multitier reporting channel united nations, 2015 hahn, 2013.
multinational corporations in sustainable development
multinational corporations are not compatible with sustainable development, although the united nations have provided international guidelines to achieve the latter.
it implies the corporations plan and investment in individuals who see the investors vision and not sustainable development.
financial equity is an essential part of sustainable development, but it is not embraced in most multinational corporations.
by any definition, mncs do not sufficiently contribute to sustainable development.
although it propels the companies to achieve their financial goals and obligations, the social and environmental impacts are devastating, inhibiting their ability to achieve true sustainability.
the desires of corporations are contrary to the ideal standards for truly sustainable development, which is primarily fueled by their activities.
although the corporations invest in infrastructural development such as schools, roads, bridges, hospitals, and electricity, the end profits are spent in other areas meadows et al.,1992.on most occasions, there is the little or negative net impact of mnc investments on the local communities.
it implies that the resourcefulness of the given area does not benefit the host community, contrary to sustainable development.
in conclusion, the global corporate social responsibility csr activities of many multinational corporations mncs are failing to make sufficient contributions toward sustainable development sd.
as discussed, the corporate structure, goals, activities, and practices focus more on their finances than social and environmental sustainability.
business ethics managing corporate citizenship and sustainability in the age of globalization .
iso 26000 and the standardization of strategic management processes for sustainability and corporate social responsibility.
corporate social responsibility and environmental management , 16 5, pp.289299.
sustainability , 10 5, p.1661.