3. community health nursing social media campaign
as evidenced by a rise in positive covid19 cases, especially among the aging population of hennepin county, minnesota hcm, the diagnosis relates to an increased risk of infection due to less knowledge of the preventative measures such as hand hygiene, social distancing, avoiding crowded areas, and early identification of symptoms through screening.
therefore, this essay explores the community health nursing diagnosis statement, prevention resources, the underlying issues, evidencebased practice, social media campaign, and the future of nursing practice based on the covid19 outbreak in hcm.
the primary community and prevention resources available at hcm include community health facilities, online updates, and strategically positioned banners.
the health department in hcm has publicized testing locations and prevention techniques throughout the community via billboards, radio, and television.
covid19 information and resources are available on hennepin county minnesota public healths website.
covid19 registration and immunization events, vaccine incentives, isolation and quarantine, and other language community resources, including information from the minnesota department of health mdh, are among the materials available hcm, n.d..
the main underlying health issue impacting hcm covid19 infection is the immunization status of the residents.
community health nursing social media campaign
my purpose for this social media campaign is to raise awareness about how covid19 mitigation methods, including hand hygiene, social distancing, and avoiding congested settings, are critical in protecting people from infections, especially the elderly.
educating hcm residents would increase their understanding of the covid19 crisis and how to prevent infection.
overall, the hcm health department and the cdc would be linked to these campaigns to ensure credibility.
a link to the hcm department of healths covid19 prevention, testing, and statistics page is helpful.
generally, the campaign would be promoted on the websites and facebook pages of the hcm and the nursing facility operators.
i will then contact the hcm health department, area nursing homes, and community centers in weeks 23 to present the campaign, and my educational ideas, and propose a partnership.
making films, performing research, contacting health specialists, and monitoring social media pages all come at a hefty price in time.