social media and womens mental health research paper
the development of technology and, more specifically, the rise of social media explains why policymakers are becoming concerned about the impact of online platforms on the populations mental health.
thus, for example, the researchers confirmed that women are more likely to get affected by unhealthy patterns of conversing with others on the internet than men, and they develop a number of alarming conditions ducharme, 2019 mclean hospital, 2021.
in turn, the misconstrued expectations of citizens lead to ignoring the emerging threats of interacting with peers in instagram, facebook, or snapchat related to ones selfesteem and the overall appropriateness of promoted values mclean, 2021 week 11 ppt, reading, video, n.d..
the significance of the described issue is related to the fact that it corresponds to various mental health conditions that are developed due to the impossibility for the affected persons to apply critical thinking.
second, they highlight the significance of the problem for the female population and, more specifically, young women as opposed to the hazards affecting men ducharme, 2019 mclean hospital, 2021 hendry, 2020.
third, all publications include information regarding the prevalent impact of social media on mental health ducharme, 2019 mclean hospital, 2021 hendry, 2020.
the review of literature discussing the problems of women stemming from the use of social media showed that urgent measures should be introduced in order to adequately address them.
meanwhile, in examining the common mental issues in women caused by the specificities of social media, the information regarding their effects on the quality of life and the underlying psychological mechanisms is limited or not generally accessible to the wide public mclean hospital, 2021 hendry, 2020.
the researchers suggest that the addictive nature of social media should be addressed by the creation of other sources of boosting selfesteem and invoking a sense of belonging mclean hospital, 2021.
this behavior leads to the emergence of mental health issues, such as depression and anxiety, and they also cause physical problems affecting ones value of looks over physical wellbeing.
heres how social media affects your mental health .