the present research paper delivers an overview of saint lucia that will be beneficial for foreign investors who would like to start a business in that country.
the country is situated on saint lucia island between st.
however, the british influence on saint lucia is more apparent since the country still has close relationships with britain.
when comparing the two countries regarding hofstedes model of national culture, it is possible to see the economic differences between the usa and saint lucia more apparently
the us, representing individualistic culture, prioritizes peoples potential, unlike saint lucia, where common values are placed above individual achievements.
though agriculture still constitutes a significant part of the countrys economy, the main revenues to the budget are provided by tourism saint lucia economy, 2021.
saint lucia is open for foreign business.
there exists a government program that brings revenues to the countrys budget due to giving foreign people an opportunity to get citizenship in saint lucia if they invest in the countrys economy government of saint lucia, 2020.
the main concern towards foreign direct investment in saint lucia regards the fact that the country does not reveal information about those who invest in a business there and get citizenship in saint lucia.
the most important ethical dilemma the us managers may face while leading the business in saint lucia concerns the culture of collectivism that is spread in the country.
both saint lucia and the us have english as their official language, so it will be easy for the citizens of both countries to communicate with each other government of saint lucia, 2020.
saint lucia did not face any trade sanctions in the past, so it is quite safe to lead the business in that country.
the saint lucian government does not preclude other countries initiatives to start a business in their country government of saint lucia, 2020.
hence, it will be beneficial for business people from other countries to establish their businesses in saint lucia because it will be easier to make revenues there.