medical negligence may be regarded as substandard health care provided by a clinician that directly causes a patients physical, emotional, or financial damages.
when the law mandates the duty of care and carefulness, carelessness may lead to the breach of this duty, or medical negligence.
at the same time, the characteristics of negligence in relation to the duty of care were later updated through the caparo industries v dickman 1990 2 ac 605 case.
in turn, medical negligence may be defined as the breach of a legal duty to take care of a person who is suffering from illness and results in damage, undesired by the defendant to the plaintiff.
6 in general, when the defender fails to perform in a way a similarly trained health care provider would do, the pursuer may become a victim of negligence.
in turn, medical negligence implies the breach of a duty of care when a medical specialist acts not like a reasonable health care provider taking into consideration the situations realities.
in the case of negligence, a health care specialist does not commit his actions knowing that it may cause harm or with an intention to injure a patient.
in the case of medical malpractice, the intent is an act or omission known by a health care provider as potentially harmful.
however, in order to form a legal claim and establish the occurrence of medical negligence, it should be approved that a medical professional owed a duty of care to a patient, a breach of this duty has occurred, and the patients injury directly results from the practitioners actions.
at the same time, if a mistake was made by any specialist who was not directly involved in health care delivery, he or she still owes the patient a duty of care and will be legally responsible for negligence.
12 in other words, in the case of medical negligence, the fact that the patients harm is a direct consequence of a health care providers actions should be proved.
proving a health care provider breached his duty of care may be regarded as one of the most resourceintensive and difficult parts of the case related to medical negligence.
in the case of medical negligence, it is not enough to prove that a medical professional has breached the duty of care and made a mistake.
as previously mentioned, a health care provider owes the duty of care to all patients in a medical setting regardless of the absence of direct interaction.
medical negligence occurs only when the plaintiffs harm is directly caused by the defendants actions.