effective assessment tools are always evidencebased and validated in numerous studies, which makes them valid and reliable sources of data.
the personality assessment inventory pai is one of the measures that are widely utilized by professionals in their research and practice.
the researcher created a full and short form of the measurement that can be used for different purposes and meet the needs of mental health practitioners in various settings ward et al., 2018.
the pai is a selfadministered inventory developed to assess personality and psychopathological symptoms in adults.
the pai was created with the help of the rational and quantitative method of the development of scales jeffay et al., 2020.
the short form can take approximately half an hour to be administered, which makes it specifically popular among practitioners and with patients who have difficulty with investing more time in their psychological assessment jeffay et al., 2020.
the short form of the inventory addresses almost the same domains, excluding the stress and inconsistency scales ward et al., 2018.
the initial version of the tool moderate s on validity scales were reported by morey jeffay et al., 2020.
it is acknowledged that the short form of the inventory is characterized by a smaller internal consistency coefficient as compared to the full version ward et al., 2018.
these inconsistencies are thought to be linked to the specifics of the used methodologies as researchers employed different validity criteria or numbers of scales burneogarcs et al., 2018.
as mentioned above, the pai is utilized in numerous contexts and samples to assess various psychopathology and personality aspects.
although the pai was not developed for such purposes, the inventory is instrumental in addressing several goals, including but not confined to classification, intervention, and prevention burneogarcs et al., 2018.
therefore, it is possible to utilize the pai to evaluate diverse assessment tools, which is important for research and practice.
researchers will be able to validate numerous models and assessment instruments that can help in attaining diverse goals diagnosing, treatment, prevention, screening, and so on.
to sum up, it is possible to state that the personality assessment inventory is an effective tool to evaluate personality and psychopathological issues in adults.
therefore, the pai is an effective personality and psychopathology assessment tool that can be utilized in diverse settings and requires further validation.
three validation studies of the personality assessment inventory short form.