furthermore, working with my dpi project demonstrates that theories are of significance when it comes to addressing specific health problems.
that is why the theory of planned behavior is considered a practical approach to minimize the prevalence of pressure injuries in the health care industry.
this information reveals that the literature review activities have led to implementing new practice approaches that have the potential to follow high healthcare delivery standards.
simultaneously, achieving the course competencies has provided me with solid theoretical information on my dpi project.
the rationale behind this strategy refers to the fact that scholarly sources can provide all the required information concerning a specific health issue and its place in the medical industry.
this approach is considered adequate because credible data have revealed that patients need specific recommendations and directions that will guide their behavior and help them achieve better health outcomes.
that activity resulted in the fact that i now understand that a dnp should invest sufficient time and effort in ensuring that medical interventions should stay within stipulated budgets nolin, 2017.
secondly, leadershiprelated competencies are also essential since the dpi project implies cooperation with many patients, healthcare professionals, and authorities.
this approach was practical since it helped select and use health information systems and patient care technology.
i identified that all information systems should meet multiple requirements to ensure that both patients and healthcare professionals can benefit from them.
secondly, i will use the skills in calculating the budgets of healthcare and proposed interventions to ensure that my project will not be a significant financial burden for an organization.
those assignments helped me understand that medical facilities should offer sufficient safety conditions to all healthcare providers and patients irrespective of their race, ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic status, and others.
the competency in identifying epidemiological data is essential since it helps identify a widespread health issue and atrisk population to consider in the project.
this claim relates to the fact that this activity helped me advance theory by highlighting whether it was possible to reduce the prevalence of pressure ulcers in the healthcare industry.
since i discovered that patient falls occur because patients are not provided with sufficient safety, the identified theory demonstrates that this situation can be addressed by improving nursing education and practice.
firstly, sufficient expertise in literature review activities denotes that i will work to identify credible and timely sources for the project.