qualitative research design ensures the attainment of a vast amount of data concerning peoples perspectives, attitudes, and behaviors.
the proposed study concentrates on the influence of veterans mindsets on the organizational cultures of companies operating in the commercial context.
the impact organizational culture has on companies performance has been investigated, but the ways post911 military personnel can contribute to the development of organizations cultural contexts is still underresearched.
in order to address the objective of the present study, it is important to evaluate the attitudes of such people as veterans, hr specialists, and top managers of the companies mentioned above.
since the purpose of the study is to gain a general understanding of the association between peoples attitudes and companies organizational cultures, employees with different backgrounds should be included.
human resources professionals will also take part in the proposed study as they are the professionals who have a deep understanding of their companies organizational culture, the characteristics of the staff, and the way employees affect the development of the cultural context of the enterprise.
the openended questions used in the group of hr specialists will be linked to the specifics of the organizational culture, changes that have occurred recently, the way veterans have had an impact on its evolvement, as well as the overall performance of their company.
finally, executives should also participate in the research as these people have the deepest insight into the organizational culture and the strategic development of the company.
these respondents will also be encouraged to share their views on potential influences veterans on the organizational culture.
as mentioned above, the participants will answer the questions related to their views on organizational culture, companys performance, as well as their performance, relationships with others, and perceived and potential input into the development of the organizations.
veteran                          business analyst                 business operations, financial performance                                   june 2021                  to identify the way specific activities functions, relationships affect organizational culture and vice versa  incomplete information, sociallyexpected answers 
executives                       chief operations officer         companys progress                                                           july 2021                  to explore the way veterans affect organizational culture as seen by executives                                  incomplete information, sociallyfavorable answers
as far as observations are concerned, some challenges may also be encountered as the companies in question cooperate with the u.s. military agencies, so confidentiality and specific attention to sensitive data is in place.
this information will be instrumental in identifying the exact ways veterans influence the organizational culture in a nonpublic environment where values and goals differ from those typical of the public context.