diversicare medical care a business plan essay
diversicare medical care formerly advocat offers a variety of health and living services to the elderly through care facilities and assistedliving facilities, most of which are situated in the southern and southwestern united states.
workers pensions include life insurance, a 401k plan with a match, continuing professional education, short break, holiday, sick time prepayments, career path intending short and longterm disability insurance, and healthcare, dental, and aspiration plans diversicare, n.d..
this essay will analyze the swot analysis, financial analysis and budget, strategy, implementation, and strategic evaluation respectively of diversicare healthcare.
the strategic initiative is to expand this companys resources by increasing funding and leveraging opportunities to diversify the services provided with high professionalism and ethics.
diversicare primary care has a solid reputation for providing its clients with highquality services.
diversicare has indeed been capable of providing postacute and donor care worldwide.
the corporation of diversicare owns more than 75 healthcare and assistedliving facilities, totaling approximately 8,500 beds ginthotavidana  waidyasekara, 2021.
diversicare, which concentrates on rural areas, provides a variety of health care services, such as residential care, leisure activity therapy, welfare care, and clinical, cardiovascular, rehabilitative, and other customized ancillary services.
one target is to schedule the expansion or construction of a new facility with an additional 78 beds to allow more patients to be cared for.
diversicare will be one lot closer to providing care to more service users once all the goals are met.
the hospital employs geographic segmentation to ensure that its patients receive accessible services, for example, treating and researching a wide range of diseases to provide better care to all patients.
the hospitals longterm and shortterm strategies will guarantee a commitment to self to identify new strengths and opportunities to reduce its weaknesses and address threats.