the increasing rate of sex content uploaded online is a direct effect of global digitalization and the relatively easy access to platforms that list such videos and pictures.
on one side, people claim porn allows individuals to become selfsufficient, have legal income without prior education, and openly exemplify their sexuality, contributing to a less judgmental societal base.
the sex industry can be significantly harmful by taking advantage of vulnerable individuals, perpetuating objectification, and negatively impacting peoples overview of sexual activities.
hence, porn is unethical since it contributes to the objectification of individuals, leads to adverse impacts on mental health, and perpetuates unrealistic views on sex.
illegal content revenge porn
revenge porn is the adult content uploaded without the consent of one party that participated in the intercourse.
as mentioned prior, the target audience that tends to engage in watching adult content is male.
researchers refer to educators who are confused in regards to approaching the subject efficiently since adult content has become such an important educational tool for minors goldstein 59.
another implication that creates adverse outcomes for minors is a lack of conversation with parents, teachers, educators, or tutors regarding pornography, sex, and hormonal changes that influence their impulses to view adult content.
hutchings mentions that in situations when erotic content is the only available sexual education information, the child tends to have unrealistic overviews.
as mentioned before, there is evidence suggesting that watching adult videos may lead to the development of unattainable expectations, dehumanization of sexual partners, and an unhealthy relationship with sex overall.
while being in the industry directly impacts performers who earn money by doing sex work, consumers are just as prone to experiencing risks due to the consumption of such content.
since adult content is so widely available, there is a significant risk for developing addictions or unhealthy behavior.
according to pina 31, individuals who enjoy taboo content such as revenge porn are prone to showing symptoms of psychopathy.
researchers mention that people diagnosed with hypersexual disorders are most vulnerable to becoming addicted to adult content de alarcn et al.
however, adults are also vulnerable when it comes to subconsciously altering their views based on the adult content they consume.
both adult performers and consumers of such content have been experiencing the adverse effects of porn.
evidence shows that watching porn correlates with dehumanization, higher risks for addiction, and sexual objectification.
such significant impacts highlight that the adult industry is harmful to individuals who frequently view adult content online and have a distorted overview of sex because of it.