the social media campaign aims to increase awareness of healthy diets among highrisk obese teenagers in georgias african american and latina communities.
the campaign will focus on nutrition assistance programs among lowincome neighborhoods as an intervention strategy for minimizing obesity rates in georgia.
nutrition assistance programs are considered healthy as they minimize the risk of increased body weight, overweight, or obesity.
georgia shape initiative seeks to achieve healthy weight among 69 of children by 2023 about georgia shape, n.d. in 1996, the atlanta physical activity and nutrition pan instituted a go girls health behavior intervention program.
environmental factors contributing to high obesity include fast foods, minimal physical activity, and sedentary lifestyles diao et al., 2020.
health education interventions in school settings improve the public health potential of lowering bmi among teenagers.
the government utilizes health education in schools as part of the childhood obesity strategy jacob et al., 2021.
youth risk behavior surveillance systems reported that 14.8 of high school teenagers were obese in the united states, while 15.6 were considered overweight pirani, 2018.
community health nursing social media campaign strategy
the objective of the nutrition education promotion campaign will encourage students to adopt healthy eating habits.
nurses based in primary healthcare facilities are mandated with health promotion activities to prevent and control obesity braga et al., 2020.
the healthy snack campaign will promote sciencebased nutritional standards for snacks and beverages provided in schools.
populationfocused social marketing interventions will include nutrition communication targeting parents and food marketing targeting schools in georgia akbar et al., 2021.
the coordinated school health csh program will promote health education, school health services, and nutritional information.
school personnel will include the school nurse, district administrators, physical education instructors, and staff members vall et al., 2017.
school personnel will ensure the implementation of health and nutritional education curriculums.
government institutions will include the department of public health, education, and the medical community vall et al., 2017.
educators in georgia will collect physical measurements of the bmi of all children enrolled in public schools.
the social media campaign aims to increase awareness of highrisk communities healthy diets, portion sizes, caloriedense foods, and nutrientpoor foods.
the social media campaign will provide data on the factors contributing to resistance toward lifestyle change among teenagers braga et al., 2020.