artificial intelligence ai influences marketing mechanisms and procedures by providing insight into consumer behavior and preferences.
this technology uses machinelearning algorithms to customize content and products to satisfy target markets and influences consumer choices by offering suggestions based on social perceptions haenlein  kaplan, 2019.
studies infer that ai facilitates decisionmaking based on consumer behavior, future business processes, and market trends nanayakkara, 2020.
ai algorithms can assist market analysts in determining customer segments that would be challenging to identify using intuition and manual data examination eslamijam, 2020.
aipowered tools can transform this data into useful information, providing marketers with the capacity to collect and analyze consumer information to develop actionable marketing strategies nanayakkara, 2020.
on the other hand, consumers may develop a negative perception that the ai is exploiting their data, mainly due to their limited understanding of the ais operating criteria puntoni et al., 2020.
ai classification involves analyzing various information, including preferences of past and present consumers puntoni et al., 2020.
the continuous use of ai also presents a high risk of consumer manipulation and overdependence on intelligent technologies.
marketers must act urgently to increase consumers acceptance of the use of ai.
several best practices exist that marketers could use to maximize consumer acceptance of using ai.
marketers can build customers trust in ai by providing informative content that educates them about how the organization is applying ai to support their customers goals nagy  hajdu, 2021.
machine learning technologies help marketers provide personalized experiences to the constantly growing number of consumers.
rather than depending on intuitive heuristics, marketers use ai to identify consumer preferences, personalize value, and align messaging talbot, 2019.
likewise, marketers are increasingly using data and ai to inform and evaluate strategies.
ai can create distinct market segments to help marketers reach target consumers easily.
lastly, ai enables marketers to test and certify assumptions about consumer behavior.
besides formulating marketing strategies, ai influences market analysis and research processes in various ways.
ai also enables market researchers to extract new insights from random text data, facilitating complex decisionmaking processes.
ai facilitates multiple marketing processes, including market segmentation, marketing strategy formation, and market research and analysis.
how artificial intelligence ai will impact the future of market research .