currently, the state of florida is a leader in the new hiv cases nationwide, constituting 4,584 new diagnoses in 2019 centers for disease control and prevention cdc, 2021b.
although the virus does not discriminate the population and may affect anyone, the most vulnerable populations concern sexual and ethnic minorities, as most hiv cases are found in the black community 57,8 and men having sexual intercourse with men msm, 75 florida department of health, 2019.
despite the existing programs to promote hivaids prevention among the population and criminalization of the failure to disclose hiv status prior to sexual intercourse, the florida state legislature does not obtain any mandatory outreach and education programs for the population.
for this reason, as far as hivaids prevention is concerned, it is necessary to present a public initiative that would encourage nurses to share knowledge about hiv prevention and sex education among different communities.
the existing florida legislations describe the benefits of promoting hivaids prevention and testing, yet the nurses participation in educational endeavors is recommended with no further motivation florida department of health, 2021.
the provision to financially motivate community nurses to create educational curriculum for the populations of high risk of hiv infections.
the increase in financial resources allocated for the preventive measures, including mass testing, social advertisement, and educational intervention programs for atrisk communities, namely, sexual and ethnic minorities.
sb 818 illinois keeping youth safe and healthy act 2021 the initiative to reorganize the sex education curricula to include the education on hiv prevention and the definition and function of prep and regular hiv testing procedures.
community nurses and community health establishments will be in favor of creating comprehensive prevention programs once they are financially incentivized to reduce the highrisk groups exposure to hiv.
republican legislators and state health department considering both the controversial views on sexual and ethnic minorities by the gop, currently prevailing in the state of florida, and the request to allocate more money on preventive rather than secondary medical assistance, the state legislature can be reluctant to embrace the initiative.
initially, the costs for the organization of the preventive agenda and financial support for community nurses will be added to the annual spending on hiv prevention in the state.