the inequity is evident since the people incarcerated for drugs are primarily represented by minorities such as african americans, lgbt representatives, people with mental illnesses, and other vulnerable populations.
according to researchers, communities of color are disproportionally represented in the category of people sentenced for drug offenses, which is one of the outcomes of the crack epidemic charity, 2017.
moreover, research examining the topic has concluded that the lgbt community is also disproportionately affected by drug use and, thus, sentences related to such offenses haeder et al., 2021.
jones was sentenced to life in prison in the late 90s for a nonviolent first drug offense rosen, 2021.
the situation is direct evidence of the biased policing field decisionmaking since sharanda jones, an african american woman, has not been involved in any illegal activity prior to the one in question.
a lack of diversity can lead to disproportionate incarcerations of particular groups that are not represented among police officers.
based on sharanda jones case, it is certain that a life sentence was not only facilitated by the system itself but also the bias that has led to such results.
also, courts are more likely to sentence people with mental illnesses and lgbt representatives, as mentioned prior, which also refers to the bias of the system.
as jones offense was a noviolent one, and the individual in question had no prior problems with the police, the police officers, judges, and attorneys would undoubtedly be keen to facilitate a much less harsh sentence.
furthermore, a lack of diversity may facilitate the lack of insight when it comes to how different communities operate and the factors that have to be confronted to create equal opportunities.
thus, diversity is a vital subject that has to be confronted in order for people such as sharanda jones to receive adequate punishment instead of life sentences for a singular nonviolent offense.
instead of preventing drug use by providing people with equal opportunities, the system started harshly punishing people most vulnerable to being incarcerated.