who deserves the label tyrant caligula or domitian?
determining the cruellest emperor between caligula and domitian is crucial because both rulers are renowned for oppressive regimes that led to crises and turmoil in rome.
caligula better deserves the label of a tyrant because his executions, abuse of power, and perception of being supreme were more intense compared to domitians.
gaius caesar germanicus caligula was the third roman emperor who ruled from 37 to 41 a.d. he is one of the cruellest and unpredictable leaders in history.
caligula ordered the public executions of his opponents, particularly senators and philosophers.
caligula began targeting people at random who would be executed publicly, whether senators, criminals, highranking officials, or army commanders.
these executions caused fear and panic among all citizens, but caligula was not bothered he wanted people to fear him.
in contrast, caligulas executions did not only involve his opponents but also other citizens like criminals and slaves.
caligula executed people for entertainment and enjoyed witnessing the torture and suffering of people.
thus, by examining the cruel acts of both emperors, caligulas deeds are harsher and severe than those of domitian.
caligula used the roman treasury to fund his extravagant lifestyle.
it is evident that both caligula and domitian abused their powers as leaders.
following his ascension to power, caligula initiated his pursuit to become a god.
therefore, by analysing both leaders perceptions and expectations of being treated like a god, caligula is depicted as a worse tyrant than domitian.
caligula perceived himself as a god and coerced people to respect him as a deity and prostrate before him.
thus, caligula deserves the tyrant label due to his vicious actions compared to domitian.
caligula and domitian are among the most authoritarian leaders in world history.
domitian and caligula also misused government funds, resulting in financial crises, and perceived themselves as gods deity.
even though these leaders shared similar tyrannical characteristics, caligulas cruel acts were more extreme than domitians thus, he better deserves the label of a tyrant.
therefore, between caligula and domitian, caligula best fits the title of a tyrant.
barrett, caligula the corruption of power new haven yale university press, 1989, 120.