the lao peoples democratic republic pdr is a country in southeast asia with an area of approximately 240,000 km2 mccartney  brunner, 2020.
low income from agriculture and poor quality of education in rural areas forces laotians to migrate to bigger cities, but the economy will improve only when the government will support internal migration and immigration.
negative reasons or forces that drive migration include poverty, the land deficit in rural areas, natural disasters, which are all the results of government policies aimed at industrialization and improvement of the countrys infrastructure by forcing peasants resettlement mccartney  brunner, 2020.
however, lao pdrs government needs to provide more support to migrants from rural areas to ensure they have the same healthcare, education, and employment opportunities as urban citizens.
as previously mentioned, despite rapid economic growth, laos, being predominantly agricultural, is still considered a developing country.
therefore, many workingage people migrate to more industrialized provinces of laos and, rarely, to the neighboring countries to search for better employment opportunities.
the laos government had started modernization reforms in industrial and agricultural sectors after gaining independence in 1975.
migration to the cities brings more workforce to industry, but outmigration from rural areas causes a lack of workers in the agricultural sector.
the lack of workers in the farming sector resulted from the shift of the central workforce to the industry, suggesting that laos became a more industrialized country.
however, before laos economy becomes mainly industrydriven, the government needs to resolve the issue of the lack of workers in the agricultural sector.
encouraging education and research has always been considered one of the principal contributors to economic growth because educated experts utilize their knowledge of agriculture and industry, enabling improvement and enhancement of these sectors creak  barney, 2018.
internal migration within laos is encouraged by government policies related to the enhancement of the industrial sector.
overall, migration in laos is gradually increasing from rural areas to the cities.
although lao pdr is still considered a poor agricultural country, urbanization enables faster economic development.
however, urbanization and industrialization create problems for the environment and the agriculture of laos.