one of the first laws passed by the uk was the employment and employment of the disabled persons act of 1944.
the program created a national network of brokers to help people with health problems, and disabilities find permanent employment.
the new provisions aim to ensure the right of persons with disabilities to meaningful negotiations with the employer and the future leader to present all their abilities  education, experience, and desire to work  to perform the necessary work.
thus, the employer does not have the right to ask any questions about the health or disability of candidates until the candidate has been offered a job.
this classified information, voluntarily expressed by a disabled person in a job improvement interview, will allow for adjustments in hiring other people with similar health problems.
so, after the employment of a disabled person, the equality law does not prohibit asking questions about the health of an employee if they will help to obtain additional benefits for the employee or employer or to improve the workplace of the disabled employee, which will allow him to do his job more accessible and better.
suppose a person believes that the employer has acted illegally by asking questions about health or disability that are not authorized by the equality and human rights commission, which can use enforcement measures against the employer.
by adopting this act, the state has identified one of the priority tasks  to expand the types of activities in which people with disabilities can work and improve the chances of employment of people with mental health problems.
analyzing the current legislation in the uk to improve the employment of people with disabilities and practical steps in this direction, it can be concluded that the equality act 2010 combines, harmonizes, and in some respects expands the existing legislation on the equality of the right to work of people with health problems and without those.
uk government, the employment of disabled people 2021 web.
8. uk government, the employment of disabled people 2021 web.