it is possible to state that abortion can cause women to experience extreme depression, cannot generate longterm psychological damage in a substantial number of cases, and can lead to future medical issues.
2. a miscarriage, also referred to as a pregnancy loss, is an abortion that happens spontaneously at the conclusion of a pregnancy yogi et al.
abortion, as a serious stressor, may have such a negative impact on physical and mental wellness that women that have had abortions suffer from grieving, which can become a significant issue moafi et al.
after all types of abortion, elaborating and adopting spiritual intelligence methods can assist with depression, anxiety, and nervousness and manage complicated pregnancies moafi et al.
according to the studies, researchers aimed to enhance conclusions from shortterm potential abortion outcomes with longerterm evidence, up to fivesix years after the abortion van ditzhuijzen et al.
abortion did not raise the probability of women having incident or recurring psychiatric illnesses 56 years after the abortion any initial mental illness after controlling for confounding factors van ditzhuijzen et al.
7. the findings contribute to the growing amount of evidence indicating that emotional and mental disorders related to abortion are caused by personal and societal factors rather than the abortion process itself rocca et al.
8. relief and comfort were the most prevalent feelings among all women five years after an abortion rocca et al.
however, induced and medical abortion is not considered a reliable predictor of future infertility lin et al.
considering studies, the abortion groupings for examining potential physical problems and consequences of abortion were classified into four subgroups lin et al.
8. practitioners who encounter patients considering an accidental or induced abortion should inform them clearly and without bias about the consequences or impact of abortion on their physical wellbeing, including significant and nonsignificant concerns lin et al.