inventing and creating new products involves researching upcoming news and ideas that can be used to develop an innovative product to grasp customers attention.
additionally, the entrepreneur can creatively use passion and bugmelist ideation processes to produce ideas based on personal expertise and experience to land a lucrative business opportunity pittaway, 2021.
these wellrecognized limits might result in market instability owing to the uneven distribution of the same information across the population alvarez et al., 2020.
however, since it is dangerous to take such a risk without proper expertise, ideation strategies increase vigilance when identifying the patterns and gaps caused by the disequilibrium within the market on what innovative products to use to fill such gaps da silva lopes et al., 2019.
an entrepreneur must innovatively use these tools pattern identification, brainstorming, and word association to gain a competitive advantage in a competitive market.
reacting creatively and innovatively to solve critical problems is a skill that entrepreneurs must employ when conducting their business.
individuals levels of creativity vary according to past knowledge and perception of a subject, which assists in developing ideas via their imagination hisrich  soltanifar, 2021.
due to the availability of many online platforms that replicate creation via online audiences interactions, digitalization has altered everyones view of creativity by opening new potential paths hisrich  soltanifar, 2021 pedersen et al., 2019.
despite all the positive strengths and advantages that society has innovatively developed over the years, some disadvantages have risen, which yielded new innovative and creative solutions.
as a result, there will be a need to use aeroponics, hydroponics, or drip irrigation in farming to address these problems and supply world demand farooqi et al., 2021.
hydroponics is a technology that utilizes a liquid medium to provide nutrients to plants, obviating the need for soil sharma et al., 2018.
hydroponic systems use 70 less water for plant development than soilbased systems ghorbel et al., 2021.
the two most common options are root mist and fog feed, neither of which is beneficial for farming despite the significant benefit of reduced water use tunio et al., 2021.
however, even though vertical farming is similar to greenhouse agriculture, the price of the growth medium necessary for the plants development will rise, increasing the total expense.
first, there is a need to prefer an open system to a closed system to meet business objectives sher et al., 2021.
to reduce production costs, traditional methods such as stacking trays with nutrient soil and aligning them vertically with small porous holes in the center for water collection to irrigate the lower trays may be useful sher et al., 2021.
these traditional techniques will lower the cost of the growth medium while also conserving water for future use nasrollahi et al., 2021.
this is because maintaining and powering a single big open area inside a warehouse is less expensive than powering several growing rooms and, at the same time, utilizing electricity to provide light and maintain a constant temperature and humidity level, lowering the marginal cost by using renewable energy sources such as solar plaak et al., 2021.
additionally, while using vertical farming employing, an appropriate water management system is necessary to irrigate the seeds or developed crops, thus decreasing waste and increasing cost and time savings via timebased automated irrigation plaak et al., 2021.
for professional development purposes, i am honing my creative communication abilities to better my company since individual communication skills are critical in both the corporate world and personal life.
the scamper and six thinking hat techniques were used to resolve constructive criticism about vertical agriculture to start a small agribusiness to meet local consumption through creative innovation of established vertical processes with greenhouse agriculture techniques and begin production on a microlevel by reducing expenditure as often as possible during the process of brainstorming for entrepreneurial success in vertical farming.
in jatoi w.n., mubeen m., ahmad a., cheema m.a., lin z., hashmi m.z. eds building climate resilience in agriculture .
strandgaard, j., slavich, b.,  khaire, m.