the paper discusses how innovation can be used to improve the functioning of an organization through establishing a new culture.
the recent developments in the sociology of organizations contributed to the increased attention to culture, communication, and ethics.
the researcher discussed how modern units functioned, their structure, and also the role culture and ethics played in their development.
e., elbk, l.,  stambulova, n.
the investigator offered the idea that highperformance culture could be established by coaching practices through the formation of a strong organizational culture.
this idea differentiates the paper from other research works and should be integrated into the literature review to show effective methods to establish a culture.
r.,  sung, y.
the author offers a new perspective on the idea of organizational culture and investigates it through the prism of hospitality.
following this assumption, the author reviewed the current literature and discussed the role of culture in the work of units and their ability to attain specific goals.
the researchers discussed communication as the basic aspect of any organization and its culture.
in such a way, similar to other articles, this one emphasizes the role of communication in organizational culture.
o. 2021.
the author was sure that managerial role, organizational performance, and culture were closely connected and should be viewed as the central aspects influencing organizations.
that is why it will be used in the review to discuss the correlation between culture and management.
communication perspectives on organizational culture and organizational identification .
the researcher discussed organizational culture and organizational identification as the two concepts vital for the work of modern firms.
similar to other works selected for the discussion, this one views communication as a vital part of the culture.
e., elbk, l.,  stambulova, n.
o. 2021.
communication perspectives on organizational culture and organizational identification .