gopal believed maintaining and running costs of each delivery would enable the company to generate more profits.
the second segment summarizes the impact of cost attribution and cost dynamics on the gopal catering services leadership to address the cost unit.
hence, gopal should consider dropping the new meal to avoid additional costs that may impact the companys profitability.
the costs incurred in each outlet included food, operating expenses such as telephone and electricity, and backing up staff wages, among others kumar  perepu, 2021.
impact of cost attribution and cost dynamics on gopals leadership
the theoretical models that help address reduction of food waste costs in gopal include policy theory, attribution theory and theory of cost.
considering the focus of retail, the goal is to establish propositions on policy options to be used by workers to help reduce food waste costs.
policy theory helps to identify policy options that promote behavior change towards efforts of reducing food waste and its associated costs cuypers et al., 2021.
the theory enables the organization to first identify the change needed for reducing food waste cost, the factors needed to cause the change to e used in coming up with policy options.
organizations like gopal can therefore educate individuals to influence their attitudes and behaviors towards food waste and understand individual attributes of workers through applying the attribution theory.
gopal needs to carefully examine how food is wasted and its associated costs to find the best solution to the problem.
the incremental analysis will help gopal catering services to regulate the cost insinuations of the two substitutions.
costs if gopal catering services does not produce the meal  rs.
costs if gopal catering services produces the meal          rs.
according to the above analysis, it is evident that if gopal decides to introduce a new meal, they will incur more costs due to the additional commodities the company will require to meet customer needs.
the total revenue of gopal will equal its total cost at rs 4420 at this point they will not be able to experience any loss or profit.
the additional costs range from borrowed money, additional investments, supporting staff, operating staff salary, delivery charges, the store manager salary, kitchen and store activities, cooking staff, and kitchen equipment.