5. skills necessary for psychiatric nursing leaders
the interview under investigation provides extensive information about the place and the role of psychiatric nursing in the system of medical sciences and presents the experience and sentiments of that spheres prominent manager.
therefore, this paper seeks, firstly, to critically discuss the main ideas and issues highlighted by the interviewee and, secondly, to identify the skills necessary for psychiatric nurse educators, managers, and leaders.
they include 1 undervaluing of the psychiatry nursing field due to current views and stigma towards mentally ill people, and 2 the problems with the education of students and professional development opportunities provided for workers.
both stigmas towards others and selfstigma are believed to be major issues in the mental health sphere that undermine the full potential of care that psychiatric nurses can provide graham et al., 2020.
in order to prove its vital part in the medical sphere, it is important to emphasize the unique skills that mental health nurses possess.
on the other hand, special skills like making intravenous and muscular injections, wound care, physical illness screening, etc., as well as constant availability to patients, is what distinguishes psychiatric nurses from psychiatrists and psychologists.
2017 found that the majority of nurses working in the psychiatric urgency and emergency healthcare sphere received their specialization in fields different from mental health.
on the contrary, ciydem  avci 2021 found that shortterm educational courses can significantly reduce students misperceptions of mental illnesses and psychiatric nursing as a career.
skills necessary for psychiatric nursing leaders
the first reason includes the existence of stigma and discrimination against mentally sick people, as well as the role of psychiatric nurses.
issues in mental health nursing, 41 5, 395403.
issues in mental health nursing, 39 8, 700706.
the current psychiatric mental health registered nurse workforce.
how stigma and discrimination influences nursing care of persons diagnosed with mental illness a systematic review.
issues in mental health nursing, 42 2, 153163.