safety management system airport ramps in the uae proposal
under these conditions, there is a need for effective safety management systems sms regulating the work of ramps.
the proposed research focuses on the problem of airport ramp safety as the critical factor influencing airports.
considering the complexity of operations performed in the area and its fundamental role, it is vital to establish a strategic approach and implement effective sms leading to reduced risks, increased safety, and better work of the area.
the uae is selected as the background for the research as it is one of the fastevolving nations with powerful airlines such as emirates, one of the leaders in civil aviation focusing on security and safety of its operations.
it includes developing practical ramp safety management procedures, plans, and strategies, improved emergency management on the airport ramp, identification and management of airside hazards, and resistance to external threats.
regarding existing safety concerns, the proposed sms should contribute to better security management.
the existing body of literature proves the critical importance of effective smss regarding the work and safety of ramp areas.
the effectiveness of these guidelines depends on the ability to consider all issues linked to the work of the ramp area and incorporate them into a single approach regulating its work and safety stolzer and gogila, 2016.
the uae also cooperates with the icao to offer an effective apron management method that can be shared with other companies to improve outcomes and ensure the stable work of airports and the absence of serious hazards icao, 2018.
this area is vital for the stable work of civil aviation, and for this reason, the research will promote a better vision of the nature of hazards peculiar to the area and how they can be managed to avoid traumas or substantial damage done to aircraft or passengers.
first, my masters degree is in safety aviation, meaning that i am interested in systems and methods to improve the existing approaches to managing operations and establish a safer and more protected framework.
for this reason, the research will benefit from using inductive reasoning to formulate the approach to creating an effective sms by using information from different sources.
the research also uses the qualitative research method to collect data and determine the components of effective smss, their influence on the work of airport and ramp area, and conclude about how to integrate this system into reallife conditions.