it is important to note that the company operates in the industry of snack stores and retail coffee.
in the case of starbucks corporations position within the industry it operates, both evidence and common knowledge support the fact that it is a top leader in coffee retail and snack store.
it is stated that starbucks has about 182,000 employees across 19,767 company operated  licensed stores in 62 countries geereddy, n.d., p.
the growth of the company was initiated in 1987, where it implemented the coffeehouse concept for the first time starbucks corporation, 2020.
in the case of the management style of starbucks, the company puts a great deal of emphasis on its employees.
it is stated that starbucks corporation has a servant leadership approach, which characterizes the behavioral manifestation of the companys organizational culture among leaders ferguson, 2019, para.
7. therefore, it reflects the corporations focus on its customers, product, and communities surrounding the company.
the companys vision is to dominate the market through exceptional service and products and to remain financially strong.
since starbucks operates in several countries, the increased awareness of these economic elements is of paramount importance in order to remain and stay competitive as it is at the moment form 10k, 2020.
starbucks corporations revenue metrics were increasing before the covid19 pandemic struck the world, which is why the company experienced a sharp decline in 2020 and is still experiencing it in 2021.
however, in accordance with the current financial report data, the market value of starbucks is 137.902b form 10k, 2020.
in other words, the company has a large portion of its debt in longterm form, and cashequivalent adjustments decrease the overall debt value.
starbucks corporations product offerings and lines mainly involve coffee products in various forms and sizes.
in other words, the company offers a highly specific set of products, which coffee.
it is important to note that although starbucks is attempting to differentiate and be less dependent on its coffeehouses, the core products still revolve around coffee drinks.
starbucks corporation can be considered as a highly omnipresent company with its reach covering africa, the middle east, europe, china and the asia pacific, and the americas.
the core value proposition of the company is tightly tied to its positioning strategy, where the emphasis is put on customer experience by connecting with them through a wide range of methods.
it ensures that the company can be sustainable, which is achieved through the prioritization of both product quality and customer service.