environmental policys impact on economic growth essay
it targets to balance environmental protection as well as the conservation of natural resources with other policy objectives, for instance, reasonably priced energy and economic growth.
this paper looks at how oligopoly and convention theory are different approaches to economy as well as the proofs that environmental policy has no major impact on economic growth and employment.
it is stated that it is too unreasonably priced, decreases economic growth, ruins competitiveness, as well as widespread layoffs plus closure of plants.
one common belief about the environmental policy is that it results in layoffs as well as closure of plants and reduces the level of competition in the market.
according to burns et al., 2020, mass layoffs during 1987 to 1990 attributed to environmental as well as safety regulations made up only one per cent of the two thousand five hundred incidents in that period, only four were a result of environmental policy maron et al., 2018.
the results of the survey showed that there is no proof of major impact of environmental policy in relation to competition maron et al., 2018.
because of the less regulation costs as percentage of added value, it would not make an economic sense if a company moves a plant abroad to escape environmental policies.
another popular view about environmental policy is that it reduces the economic growth.
numerous economic scholars have examined the long haul effects of environmental policy expenditures.
methods for assessing the shortterm expenditures of personal environmental policies focus on the particular markets as well as activities directly influenced by the rule.
however, the technique cannot probably reveal if the basic environmental regulation will negatively impact the whole nations economic growth in the long run.
for instance, in case environmental rule or regulation costs are high in one sector, the more expensive the output that results in the increase in demand for substitutes.
for instance, it turns out that very few layoff plus plant closure cases happen because of environmental rules.
apart from the consequences of environmental policy, the paper has also looked at oligopoly and conventional economic theory.
from the paper, we have seen that a common belief about the environmental policy is that it results in layoffs as well as closure of plants and reduces the level of competition in the market.
apart from unemployment, we have also seen that another popular view about environmental policy is that in the end it reduces the economic growth.