despite target increasing its net earnings year over year, especially by over 1 billion in fiscal year 2020, its net profit and gross profit margins are remaining similar, with decimal of percentage points in changes.
the fact that target is able to increase net earnings by such a significant amount and even slightly raise its net profit margin indicates much efficiency in the company.
targets market value has been increasingly growing, largely matching the trajectory of the stock price which obviously contributes.
depending on product segment in wholesale retail, target holds between 20 and 26 market share statista research department, 2021.
the debttoequity ratio indicates that target finances a significant portion of its debt through shareholder equity and is in good financial health.
the company also maintains an operating cash flow of 10.5 billion, increased by 3 billion from previous years, and 10.7 billion in inventory target corporation, 2020.
targets cash position is stable and along with other liquid assets far exceeds its total debt and potential liabilities, which signifies the financial strength of the company.
target is a large retailer which purchases goods from manufacturers and wholesalers and allows consumers to browse and buy a wide variety of goods in one location.
similar to other large retailers, target offers online ordering for pickup or delivery as well as a loyalty program for consumers.
as a large retailer, target does not necessarily have core products.
as one of the ways the company does so is selecting a few exceptional brands in each category of products, known as owned brands, that target supports to being in line with their core strategy and meeting the best quality expectations for consumers.
overall, targets distribution strategy is aimed at the most efficient movement of inventory from its source and distribution centers to the retail stores and to consumers, while minimizing costs and optimizing delivery times.
although target does not necessarily position itself as such, it is often viewed as more upscale in comparison to other large retailers such as walmart or costco, attracting affluent consumers.
similar to target, walmart offers a range of products in all categories, both under its own and from outside brands.
target and the other retailers realizing the consumer trends of ordering online are attempting to capture as much of the market as well, but amazon remains synonymous with online retail and offers features such as rapid nextday delivery to the doorstep, usually a much wider choice in most consumer categories, and other online services where amazon has expanded, and customers can draw benefits from.
it has 1909 stores in the u.s. with 44 distribution centers target corporation, n.d.b. it has no international retail locations, but offices worldwide, likely for sourcing products.
as described earlier, target is driven by its slogan of expect more, pay less positioning itself as an accessible retailer of high quality and elegant goods in all categories.
the value proposition for target is that it will provide a pleasant shopping experience via the customer service it provides, value delivered on its products, and innovation through available features both instore and online.
therefore, target seeks to deliver value through a range of elements such as accessible pricing on more upperend products, as well as accessibility and convenience of online ordering and pickupdelivery.