airports use shifts to manage the control of traffic at airports and prevent workloads gupta et al., 2019.
this study is carried out to investigate the implications of air traffic controller shift works on aviation safety.
the international federation of air traffic controllers associations ifatca has provided recommendations for airports to manage fatigue.
this study will provide insight into how airport authorities can design work schedules for atcs to avoid the development of fatigue, burnout, and exhaustion.
the air traffic controllers working in a work schedule with a significant number of air traffic are likely to experience higher fatigue levels chang et al., 2019.
this affects the air traffic controllers health and safety and limits their ability to be continuously alert mckenna  wilkes, 2018.
the main purpose of this study is to understand the implications of air traffic controller shiftwork on safety.
the focus group for the research is air traffic controllers working at a busy airport.
the airport handles over 40 million passengers which means that the air traffic controllers have a busy schedule.
this study is related to the issue of fatigue development in air traffic controllers.
the survey was administered online to air traffic controllers from los angeles international airport.
this is because such breaks can enhance the ability of the air traffic controller to concentrate and provide quality work.
figure 2 illustrates the views of participants on the number of hours that should be scheduled off between any two shifts for air traffic controllers to have adequate rest.
airport management utilizes scheduling to create shifts for their workers at air traffic control towers.
extending the number of hours between shifts is one of the changes that can benefit air traffic controllers.
however, even with the current measures, the air traffic controllers are still getting fatigued and exhausted.
the study provides a preliminary analysis of shiftwork for air traffic controllers.
effects of work shifts on fatigue levels of air traffic controllers.
the analysis of occurrences associated with air traffic volume and air traffic controllers alertness for fatigue risk management.
effects of a modified shift work organization and traffic load on air traffic controllers sleep and alertness during work and nonwork activities.