purpose the purpose of this evidence brief is to prove that the utilization of registered nurses as primary team members interacting with patients during telehealth visits in an outpatient setting will improve patient outcomes.
1. pio in the outpatient clinical setting, will the utilization of registered nurses as a primary team member to perform telehealth visits improve patient outcomes?
registered nurses need to become primary team members to interact with patients during telehealth.
3. objective the objective of this research is to discover information on how registered nurses can play a role as primary team members during telehealth visits through evidencebased practice to improve patient outcomes.
1. the article discusses that telehealth is not just a phone call, but it is a resource for patients and families and nurses play an important role in providing those services to patients via technology.
the experience of australian general practice patients at high risk of poor health outcomes with telehealth during the covid19 pandemic a qualitative study.
1. this study explored the experiences of telehealth for vulnerable patients in general practice during the pandemic.
1. this study is to explore the results of medication adherence rate and disease process on patients with rheumatoid arthritis via customized telehealth education versus patients discharged home with standard care instructions.
1. representing an important voice in the community of experts on the subject matter, jnr 2020 explains in his paper that the role of nurses in promoting the use of telehealth in the healthcare context is vital in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.
the impact of the advanced practice nursing role on the quality of care, clinical outcomes, patient satisfaction, and cost in the emergency and critical care settings a systematic review.
the impact of the advanced practice nursing role on the quality of care, clinical outcomes, patient satisfaction, and cost in the emergency and critical care settings a systematic review.