athletic trainers as professionals in inclusion and diversity in sport research paper
to be clear, the assertion made here does not assume that sports training should not be subjected to and held responsible for quantifiable outcomes that characterize the admittance level of athletic training consultants adams et al., 2021.
however, although instructors have little power over the overall culture of sports, their individualized efforts in the sports training room may have a tremendous impact maurerstarks et al., 2008.
irrespective of the specific corporate setting or work requirements, most sports therapists are challenged on a constant basis with problems of racism, class, sexual orientation, and ethnic diversity day et al., 2021 maurerstarks et al., 2008.
the previous national athletic trainers association nata report emphasizes the importance of incorporating cultural competency and diversity training into education programs.
for these and other reasons, current and future sports training experts, instructors, and learners must become more multiculturally knowledgeable, culturally competent, and socially experienced.
for example, how athletic training students are equipped to deal with problems of racial, socioeconomic, gender, cultural, and ideological variety may impact, if not determine, athletic trainers relative social and professional performance in these varied environments.
more study is needed to determine how athletic trainers can play a role in inclusion and diversity in sports, therefore bridging the gap produced by individuals who quit due to feelings of marginalization and institutional racism.
due to a lack of diversity in the professions workforce and academia, there is a dearth of culturally competent sports training therapists and instructors.
according to ford 2003, professional sports trainers and clinicians should be aware that culture influences a persons decisions, actions, and reactions.
ford 2003 conducted research that defined cultural competency in mental health services in order to satisfy the conflicting demands of highly skilled athletic trainers in nata.
2020, many people have worked hard to promote the athletic training professions diversity and equality, but there has been little progress in one critical area raising the proportion of culturally minority coaches and trainers.
as a result, if athletic training instructors desire to fully engage in promoting a more analytical, diverse, and ethnic education, they must be prepared to face the pedagogical and life issues that such a program will bring.
however, issue of athletic training representation with regards to culture, racism, and sexual orientation is a subject that requires further investigation to unlock the overarching barriers for total inclusivity and diversity.