air new zealand cargo handlers department safety essay
the rationale behind this statement is that an sssp is an effective communication tool that outlines how health and safety should be managed site safe, n.d..
the site risk assessment section will introduce potential physical and psychosocial hazards, and their probability will be presented using a risk assessment matrix.
risk inspection, reporting, and management details will be covered in the hazard control and management section.
many hazards can affect the cargo handling department of air new zealand.
secondly, health and safety are endangered if cargo handlers load the baggage with a mass that exceeded allowed limits hlavaty  kraus, 2017.
these findings demonstrate that stress and workload are essential psychosocial risks that adversely affect cargo handlers from air new zealand.
that is why these individuals should make all the employees understand that if they have witnessed a hazard, it is necessary to report it to a responsible manager.
if staff members are acquainted with the given document, they will know how they manage specific hazards that can emerge during cargo handling processes.
this information demonstrates that all the employees bear responsibility for controlling and managing risks appropriately.
as for air new zealand, the visitors should know that potential risks are improper loading processes, increasing the mass allowed, terrorist attacks, stress, and workload.
sufficient attention should be devoted to training employees to ensure that they promote the highest occupational health and safety standards.
once the employees gain this knowledge, the probability of avoiding or managing risks properly increases.
that is why educational sessions are needed to teach the workers to manage psychosocial risks, which will lead to improved job performance.
unions have the required authorities to ensure that a link between employees and management is possible, which allows staff members to affect the way of how they perform their professional duties and make it safer.
this sitespecific safety plan has offered guidelines for the cargo handlers department in air new zealand.
within the organization, possible physical hazards include the violation of professional loading, unloading, and securing baggage instructions, increasing the allowed weight limit, and potential terrorist attacks.
training sessions are required to improve the safety knowledge and skills among the workforce, while worker participation and representation can be ensured through the reporting procedure and unions.