psychiatry ptsd following refugee trauma essay
1. the history of ptsd
4. ptsd related to refugees trauma
5. solutions for the refugees ptsd issue
more precisely, ptsd is a psychiatric disorder that may occur in people who have experienced or witnessed a traumatic event such as a natural disaster, a serious accident, a terrorist act, warcombat, or rape the american psychiatric association, n.d., para.
1. according to the data from the u.s. department of veterans affairs n.d., about 6 out of every 100 people or 6 of the population will have ptsd at some point in their lives n.d., para.
the life of people with ptsd is full of mental struggling and problems with integration into society.
the history of ptsd
the multiple symptoms of ptsd are usually categorized into intrusion, active avoidance, negative alterations in cognitions and mood as well as marked alterations in arousal and reactivity miao et al., 2018, p.
finally, previously existing mental disorders, such as depression and anxiety, increase acquiring ptsd miao et al., 2018.
obviously, ptsd consequences are harmful to mental and physical health and problems in social life.
finally, the patients tend to have insomnia and excessive stress reactions resulting in oxidative stress and inflammation in chronic ptsd and the neurobiological consequences of these processes including accelerated cellular aging and neuroprogression miller et al., 2018, p.
ptsd related to refugees trauma
one of the most lingering problems in societys mental health is the frequency of ptsd in refugees.
some migrants are separated from their families or observe the torture of their close ones, which might lead to depression and anxiety in addition to ptsd rathke et al., 2020.
solutions for the refugees ptsd issue
1. finally, the most recent solution for the ptsd problem can be neurofeedback therapy, which activates the function of mental selfregulation yet, the method is not fully recognized and described askovic et al., 2017.
trauma and ptsd in the who world mental health surveys.
what is ptsd?