the purpose of this capstone project was to implement selfscheduling to reduce turnover.
the gap addressed by this capstone project was abhs inflexible scheduling that impacts job satisfaction, leading to a high turnover intent.
relevant peerreviewed evidence was reviewed to support the link between inflexible shift schedules on poor nursing outcomes, including burnout, inability to meet social engagements, and low satisfaction rizany et al., 2019.
the director of nursing don, orthopedic unit manager, and staff nurses were considered people critical to the success of this practice change.
subsequently, key resources required were identified they included a budget for a 3day workshop user training, the personnel to train the nursing staff unit manager and nurse educator, it systems supporting google calendar and facebook, and personal smartphones or tablets running these applications.
second, i developed a solution a selfscheduling protocol to a problem  low nurse retention at abhs orthopedic unit.
another notable success was identifying, summarizing, and synthesizing 30 sources supporting selfscheduling as a solution to the nurse turnover problem.
identifying and contextualizing a problem can be applied in any future project addressing an area that needs improvement or change.
regulations introduced to curb infections discouraged inperson meetings, which made it difficult to access the stakeholders the don, unit manager, and staff nurses for this project.
before moving to project maintenance, abh must first receive the selfscheduling protocol since it has not been implemented yet.
an improvement in nurse retention and job satisfaction from the baseline will make a compelling business case for the wider adoption of selfscheduling at abh.
one msn program outcome that was integrated into the capstone project is developing innovative nursing practices that impact quality outcomes.
a creative, evidencebased solution selfscheduling to the problem of low nurse retention at abhs orthopedic unit was designed.
it involved a change in the current practice of inflexible schedules that affect worklife balance, leading to burnout and low morale among nurses wynendaele et al., 2020.
a second msn program outcome integrated into the project is the assembly of scientific findings from nursing science to inform a practice change.
the problem addressed by this capstone project was the low nurse retention at abh.