previous studies have shown that ebp programs improve care management significantly through positive lifestyle changes, such as careful blood pressure management, regular physical activities, cessation of smoking, and attendance at cardiac rehabilitation.
specifically, the chosen picot question is, what lifestyle effects does a postmyocardial infarction pmi program has on the lifestyle of heart attack survivors when given by an rn compared to those who do not receive the management within one year of discharge?
the postmyocardial infarction pmi program is an appropriate and highly effective method for reducing the recurrence of ami among survivors of the disease following their discharge from health care facilities.
2020 conducted a study to examine the impact of lifestyle changes on clinical outcomes among ami patients who had undergone percutaneous coronary intervention pmi.
in their study, sibel and argon 2018 examine the effectiveness of a training program developed on the health promotion model and individual counseling to impact positive lifestyle changes among ami patients following discharge.
2018 examined the impacts of adherence to physical activities pa program on the survival rates among postmyocardial infarction patients following their initial discharge.
2020 explored the lived experiences of ami patients and their families, their engagement with physical activity in postmyocardial infarction programs, and the impact of adherence on reducing the chances of recurrence.
studies have shown that reducing the recurrence risks requires lifestyle changes that include physical exercise, cessation of smoking, proper and effective blood pressure control, monitoring, and a healthy diet bhatta  glantz, 2019.
regarding the impacts of the training program on the patients discharged after hospitalization with myocardial infarction, sibel and argon 2018 seek to evaluate the effectiveness of such an intervention.
do what you can with a happy heart a longitudinal study of patient and family members lived experiences of physical activity postmyocardial infarction .