trends in embedded systems research paper
various fields and platforms have received an increased application of embedded systems, providing increased flexibility for interfacing communication protocols de micco et al., 2019.
2018, major components of an embedded system include integrated chips, printed circuit board assembly, industryspecific interfaces and protocols, realtime operating systems rtos, and microcontrollers or digital signal processors.
the latest trends in the embedded system include soc, iot, wireless connectivity, power consumption, multicore processors, and operating systems.
current trends in wireless connectivity for applications in embedded systems include shortrange protocol applications, reduced power utilization, systemonchip architecture, and the internet of things.
there has been an increasing need for high performance in embedded systems due to additional functionalities.
in the near future, to achieve multiprocessing functionalities by embedded systems, there could be a need for migrating existing systems to multicore platforms jayaprakasam et al., 2017.
because of risking security attacks, embedded systems components such as applications, operating systems, and processors require having better security features to handle security challenges and preserve personal and professional information.
the increased functionality of embedded systems has enhanced its application to national defense, aerospace, automotive electronics, industrial controls, consumer electronics, and communications.
mobile devices, networks, and realtime applications make embedded systems highly important.
some of the contributors to the trends in embedded systems include the increasing growth of aerospace, consumer electronic applications, military, and healthcare.
therefore, the trends in embedded systems focus on developing systems that are energy efficient and less costly patil  tupe, 2020.
it is depicted that embedded systems are evolving, focusing on increasing performance speeds, developing cybersecurity systems, less power consumption, and costefficient.