diet and physical exercise in polycystic ovary syndrome management research paper
polycystic ovary syndrome pcos refers to a disease that is common among middleaged women and is attributed to hormonal disproportions.
this study aims at evaluating the efficiency of a healthy diet compared to physical exercise in improving the condition of polycystic ovary syndrome patients.
3 this review seeks to provide an insight on physical exercise and dietary measures as management approaches in terms of their efficiency in improving the state, prevention, and prognosis of pcos patients.
this study is based on selected research articles with different approaches with the aim of determining the efficiency of management modalities of polycystic ovary syndrome.
this paper will analyze the results and review the conclusions reached at the end of the conducted studies to come up with a recommendation on the best treatment option for polycystic ovary syndrome.
cao et al., 2016 the target of the research is to ascertain whether physical exercise intervention upholds pcos prevention.
2016 the objective of the study was to ascertain serum vaspin and chemerin in obese against moderateweight polycystic ovary syndrome patients and study the anticipated connection between the metabolic syndrome and adipocytes.
tagliaferri et al., 2017 the target of the research was to determine the outcome of six months of the introduction of melatonin on clinical, metabolic, and endocrine qualities of women with pcos.
williams et al., 2014 the researchers of this case study explored the consequences of pcos on the lives of women using photovoice.
the study proved the initial hypothesis that there was no major difference in the level of omentin1, serum vaspin, between the healthy and pcos patients.
each research review focused on different attributes of obesity and physical exercise in the management of pcos patients.
continuous versus intermittent aerobic exercise in the improvement of quality of life for women with polycystic ovary syndrome a randomized controlled trial .