family relations are becoming increasingly important in the modern world.
this is also critically important due to the fact that even at present, the deterioration of family ties will negatively affect not only society, but also the psychological and physical health of individuals salinger and whisman, 2021.
at the moment, the western model of marital relations is particularly widespread, where the relationship is based on friendliness and taking into account the persons personality as the most important indicator.
it is important to note the fact that the relationship between spouses is a direct reflection of the trends in the development of society.
moreover, it can be caused by different views on the family structure and values that one of the spouses has formed during the formation of personality.
on the other hand, children in family relationships can significantly affect the cohesion, improvement of their responsibilities and care mahoney et al., 2021.
religion and theology also pay considerable attention to how the institution of family relations develops in modern society.
thus, research comes to the conclusion that faith can contribute to both improvement and deterioration of the situation in the family kelley et al., 2020.
thus, based on the postulates of faith, it is possible to deepen and improve the understanding of such a social phenomenon as family relations and their problems.
without taking into account religious aspects, people risk getting rid of the understanding of the main values and the role of creating a family, which will have a negative impact in the future.
if people overlook this fact, the situation in the family can significantly worsen and lead to undesirable consequences aman et al., 2019.
among the practices that must be had in every family, holding a joint prayer is noted, which has a beneficial effect king et al., 2020health.
naturally, the creation of a family is accompanied by many difficulties, but with a sober look at the relationship between husband and wife, it will help to solve them in a timely and effective manner.
it plays an important role in family relations, as it contributes to the creation of cohesion and mutual understanding in the family.