women are highly likely to live longer than men because of behavioral and biological factors.
mens tendency to engage in several behaviors that risk their health can explain age differences between men and women reitsma et al., 2021.
firstly, smoking has been a critical factor in influencing men to live lesser than women zarulli et al., 2018.
16 of men aged eighteen and over smoke compared to 12.3 of women within the same age bracket healthy people, n.d..
approximately 278,544 men die from cigarette smoking annually compared to 201,733 women in the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention, n.d..
in contrast, smoking prevalence is 12.6 in men compared to 1.98 of women in india reitsma et al., 2021.
since more men than women smoke, it is unsurprising that smoking is responsible for the sex differences in mens and womens mortality rates.
for example, cardiovascular disease is responsible for approximately seventy percent of the excess difference in mens and womens mortality.
since visceral fat amplifies cardiovascular disease risk, more men generally develop the ailment and die early than women.
in addition, testosterone has been known to suppress immunity in men, which increases susceptibility to cardiovascular disease and cancers ruth et al., 2020.
the protective effect of estrogen enables premenopausal women to have lower chances of developing coronary heart disease than women and men who have reached menopause iorga et al., 2017.
researchers utilized the known fact that men living with alzheimers disease die younger than women with the same illness davis et al., 2020.
in conclusion, behavioral and biological factors account for the differences in mens and womens life expectancies.
secondly, estrogen, which enhances immunity in women, and testosterone, which suppresses immune responses, can explain why women live longer than men.
different factors influence life expectancy, but social factors and biology have a major impact on mortality differences in women and men.
using human genetics to understand the disease impacts of testosterone in men and women.
e., knuppel, a., gunter, m.j., holmes, m.v., martin, r.m., murphy, n.,  travis, r.