the topic of the direct practice improvement dpi project is the use of capnography during resuscitation in the intensive care unit icu, with a focus on nurses adoption of this tool.
capnography is one of the possible methods to measure the level of etco 2 during resuscitation, but not many hospitals use it to improve patients outcomes.
in the first works, the use of capnography was the main subject, considering its potential benefits for resuscitation outcomes and patient wellbeing.
its focus on employees as facilitators of change is crucial for this dpi project that considers nurses use of capnography as the center of the investigation  it explains the connection between nurses knowledge, their adoption of capnography, and clinical uncertainty.
nursing knowledge of capnography in resuscitation the success of capnography depends on the level of knowledge about this technique nurses would possess in the implementation of the tool.
despite certain benefits of the chosen tool, the literature review proves that there are some gaps in understanding capnography and its benefits to patients and hospitals kiekkas et al., 2016.
it is not enough for nurses to learn how to use capnography and measure the levels of etco 2, they must also understand how to interpret the available readings and various waveforms kiekkas et al., 2016.
outcomes of capnography on nurses and patients the quality of care and the level of knowledge nurses can gain are closely connected with the chosen theoretical guidelines and clinical experiences hassankhani, aghdam, rahmani,  mohammadpoorfard, 2015.
by learning how to interpret the results of capnography, nurses also increase their ability to predict and guide the cases of resuscitation in different care units pantazopoulos et al., 2015.
it is not known to what degree the implementation of an evidencebased intervention for the use of capnography at an acute care hospital in the northeastern u.s. would impact the rate of use of capnography use during cpr, when compared to current practice among adult icu patients undergoing cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the icu over a four week period.
the research discussed in the literature review shows the crucial role capnography can play in the outcome of resuscitation hassankhani et al., 2015 kiekkas et al., 2016.
it is vital to address this problem and see whether a change project positively influences nurses actions as well as patient outcomes related to cardiac arrest and resuscitation.
the central clinical question that guides this project is to what degree does implementation of an evidencebased intervention on use of capnography during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, lead to increased use of capnography during cardiopulmonary resuscitation when compared to current practice, among adult icu patients in an acute care hospital setting in the northeastern u.s within a four week period?
patients who experienced cardiac arrest and underwent cardiopulmonary resuscitation with and without the use of capnography in the icu.
the use of capnography during cardiopulmonary resuscitation means the application of capnography techniques to track patients etco2 levels during cpr pantazopoulos et al., 2015.
nurses adoption of the tool depends on their awareness about capnography techniques and benefits, as well as their competence with regards to technical equipment use and etco2 levels interpretation pantazopoulos et al., 2015.
the purpose of this quantitative, quasiexperimental project is to determine to what degree the implementation of capnography during cardiopulmonary resuscitation cpr when compared to the current practice would increase the use of capnography during cpr for adult icu patients at an acute care hospital in the northeastern united states.
this project will contribute knowledge about nurses use of capnography and their preparedness to apply this tool during cpr in the icu.
the main data collection method that will be used for the project is the nurses knowledge on capnography test kiekkas et al., 2016 nelson, 2018.
nurses who take part in the project will receive structured surveys based on the nurses knowledge about capnography test nkct, and the investigator will also collect the hospitals records about resuscitation and patient outcomes for comparison.
capnography as a tool to detect metabolic changes in patients cared for in the emergency setting.
sheak, k.r., wiebe, d.j., leary, m., babaeizadeh, s., yuen, t.c., zive, d.,  abella, b.s. 2015.