thus, the study design is intended to provide an empirically valid theory for answering the research questions posed.
this study focuses on systematic design as it provides the most rigorous and structured procedural guidelines for conducting research based on a grounded theory strategy guetterman et al., 2019.
as used in this study, a grounded theory can be defined as a qualitative research method that uses a systematic series of procedures to develop an inductively derived grounded theory of the phenomenon under study charmaz  belgrave, 2019.
whereas quantitative data collection requires only the technical side of the process, qualitative data collection requires the creation of a series of semistructured interview guides to ensure that data collection is systematic and monitored by researchers.
after the general conference, the researchers contact through the same program that was used to enact the communicative situation oneonone with the research participants and conduct a semistructured interview with them.
instead of labeling the studied experiences and practices, the researcher will code the research materials in vivo, thus reflecting in categories the immediate phenomena reflected and objectified by the participants themselves.
in addition, another condition for ensuring the validity of qualitative research through the grounded theory method is theoretical sampling, i.e., a strategy that assumes a flexible variable change in the sample during the research process by attracting new people and information korstjens  moser, 2018.
for example, medical educators can apply research findings to their own assessment methods that demonstrate that rolebased video recording of communication situations helps students prepare for reallife clinical practice.
to ensure the transferability of the study, a detailed description of the study methodology, in particular the approach to its conduct, the study participants, the study conditions, and the data analysis methodology, will be provided, which will allow other researchers also to determine the validity of the study results.
triangulation means the use of different methods for example, qualitative andor quantitative to check the validity of research results and to minimize the source of error for example, researcher bias korstjens  moser, 2018.
triangulation, in this context, is a onephase blended study design combining methods for collecting and analyzing qualitative and quantitative data.
the mixed methods strategy used in this study makes it possible to obtain more reliable empirical data for the reason that the quantitative method complements and validates the overall qualitative strategy.
when validating the study results, the research team will also ask study participants to review the study results and their interpretations as provided by the researchers.