in 2011, judith stacey introduced her book unhitched love, marriage, and family values from west hollywood to western china to discuss samesex marriage through the prism of the equality rights for gays, lesbians, and transgender people.
in this review, staceys book unhitched will be summarized with special attention to its strengths the authors position and weaknesses limited multiculturalism and the evaluation of such concepts as family, divorce, and violence in class, race, and gender relations.
along with common sections like acknowledgements, introduction, and conclusion, stacey 2011 develops five chapters to explain what makes gay men the most controversial, and the most creative petitioners for family recognition and rights p.
in the introductory chapter, the author underlines the necessity to unhitch the concepts of love, commitment, marriage, and parenthood and redefine a current understanding of family and fidelity.
in the last chapter, stacey 2011 cooperates with the mosuo people from china and explores families where no marriage is appreciated, and men continue living with their mothers, separating sexuality and romance from parenting.
stacey achieves a solid understanding of how gay couples treat their parenting opportunities, what african families contribute to current equality rights, and how the role of females rooted in the mosuo community shapes debates.
in this class, such themes as gender, class, and racial differences have been discussed to understand the importance of family, divorce, and violence in society.
the concepts of family, divorce, and violence are significantly predetermined by such demographic factors as gender, race, and class.
stacey tries to consider as many things about love, marriage, and family as possible.
human relationships require constant investigation and improvement, and the book written by stacey in 2011 is a solid modern examination of the theme of family and love in contemporary society.
this book contains several reallife examples from the united states, south africa, and western china to describe family values, marriage conditions, and modern love issues.