employees of the company are under constant control of the management, are discriminated against, and are at risk of being dismissed for unknown reasons.
at the same time, employees are often dismissed if they do not achieve goals that the management keeps secret blackwell, 2020.
however, the companys management does not tell the employees what indicators must be achieved.
the researchers claim that the extensive network of cameras also allows the companys management to track every step of an employee.
according to employees, unions could fight with difficult working conditions at amazon, but the company does not allow them to occur.
on the other hand, the sociopsychological climate refers to a stable moral environment or the teams general emotional condition, as evidenced by employee connections and attitudes toward the common good brooks et al., 2019.
the promotion of integrating goals between the enterprises upper management and the employees is required to create a positive atmosphere.
to clarify the nature of the relations between managers and subordinates to find out the degree of satisfaction of employees with the service and living conditions of the organization of work
employees should attend lectures and seminars on topics such as the fundamentals of sociopsychological interactions, methods of individual selfrealization, professional ethics, and business etiquette on a regular basis to help manage the psychological environment.
managers can, for example, ask employees to draw a circle around each participant based on their level of impact on the team throughout the session.
amazon will be required to provide employees with access to kpi calculation algorithms and establish the reasons and consequences of their noncompliance sharma, 2020.
the office of psychological relief helps to motivate staff when choosing a place of work, provides contact with employees and between them, and helps to identify problems in the workplace tuckey et al., 2017.
working conditions are hell amazon employees are not surprised its warehouses have seen hundreds of covid cases.