consequently, key work experience aspects including job security, compensation, job satisfaction, and safety are highly dependent on the various elements of a region which contribute to its growth.
job security in canada is based on the types of skills and level of education acquired by employees.
employees with multiple and highly polished skills get guaranteed job security in most of the ten provinces holcombe  kemp, 2020.
however, the region does not guarantee job security due to high competition in skills.
alberta is open to skills in the job description and thus attracts more immigrants to work in the industries holcombe  kemp, 2020.
alberta is also highly invested in revenuegenerating industries like soil sands hence boosting the level of employment in the region canadian encyclopedia, 2021.
there is a high possibility of workers in this region remaining in their jobs as there is no skills factor in job competition.
2021 argues against the perception that there is guaranteed job security for manually skilled workers in canada.
consequently, immigrants are more likely to jump from one industry to another in search of a more secure job lamb et al., 2021.
regions with low national income like nova scotia have a high level of unemployment hence lower job security canadian encyclopedia, 2021.
work compensation in canada, like job security, is based on essential skills and level of education.
2017, although the immigrants are less compensated in all canadian regions, there is not much different from the native pays in nonstandard jobs.
although most immigrants have no high skills required in the standard jobs, many regions practice discrimination in compensation.
migrant workers from taiwan, hawaii, and ireland working in the coastal regions of nunavut, british columbia, and great lakes experience labor abuse marshke et al., 2018.
highly developed regions are more likely to offer job opportunities alongside other services to render workers satisfaction.
factors such as job security, safety, compensation, and satisfaction vary from a region to another.