research indicates that loss of community connectedness is the everyday activity that leads to poor mental health.
since this was the launch event for project tribe, it was crucial to focus on mental health awareness.
the project will influence the neighbourhood, and after project tribe, the cohort will invest in a nonprofit organisation that would improve mental health in the community.
moreover, it will positively impact the mental health of the community and start the conversation, building a tribe of support around the project.
general information on mental health and treatment and relevant services for mental health issues are also included local organizations with mental health expertise, para.
these organisations can assist in organising a community event, locating speakers with mental health expertise, providing peer and family support
the analysis of afterschool activities can be an insightful source of information about the target groups social skills and personal capabilities, which are critical for language and emotional development kite, 2021.
the project characterises afterschool programs that provide interventions to children aged 5 to 18, run over at least part of the school year, which makes both children and adolescents a primary interest for the analysis.
it is necessary to point out that mental health issues among young children and adolescents are critical issues.
according to a wide range of studies, students are prone to develop a number of major mental health problems, such as nonsuicidal selfharm, eating issues, substance abuse, suicidality, and depression pedrelli et al ., 2015.
the statistics demonstrate how critical mental health is to students academic achievement.
thus, understanding the association between the two may aid in developing different techniques that educational settings can use to support students with mental health concerns.
therefore, there is a possibility that the unfair treatment of the minority group of students will negatively affect pupils mental health and subsequent academic achievements.
it is important to continue educating about mental health services on the target school campus and student peerled support groups.
similarly, the project has increased student awareness of mental health resources available on our campus due to project tribes surveying of the student population.
various key organisations, speakers, and support groups will be invited local organizations with mental health expertise, para.
mental health in schools engaging learners, preventing problems, and improving schools , new york, usa skyhorse publishing, inc.
federal funding for early childhood supports and services a guide to sources and strategies , washington, dc, usa finance project.
improving students mental health through art therapy .
college students mental health problems and treatment considerations.
2011 the project approach in early years provision a practical guide to promoting childrens creativity and critical thinking through project work .