the issue, therefore, leads to immeasurable immigration concerns that can only be understood through the analysis of the refugee act of the u.s. the present work thus covers americas refugee act intending to pinpoint the various bottlenecks that can be removed to make the process of accepting needy and qualifying persons into the country smooth.
the american refugee act is a 1980 law that governs the issue of refugees acceptance into the country.
the refugee act was enacted by the u.s. senate in 1979 and became an act in april 1980, after president jimmy carter signed it into law.
the act replaced the earlier versions of laws touching on the issue of refugees, mainly the migration and refugee assistance act and the immigration and nationality act refugee timeline, 2021.
the law requires that the coordinator reports directly to the president while the office of refugee resettlement takes care of the groups funding issue public law 96212, n.d. better still, the 1980 law also increased the number of refugees accepted in the u.s. in a specific fiscal year to fifty thousand, from the previous cap of 17,400 individuals public law 96212, n.d. thus, the law promotes americas contribution to humankind by the elimination of suffering.
worse still, the new definition of a refugee by the refugee act of 1980 leads to a dangerous blander in the struggle to offer safety to the many people seeking such in the u.s. the terms definition comes from the unhcr refugee protocols meaning, which uses persecution as the sole reason for refugee consideration menjivar et al., 2019.
for example, the american immigration council 2021 says that none of the about four million displaced venezuelan citizens seeking shelter in the u.s. in 2020 qualify as asylum seekers or refugees.
that is because of the absence of the persecution facet in their description as persons seeking protection in the u.s. disregarding individuals fleeing harsh natural calamities in venezuela in 2020 contradicts the nations implementation of the azorean refugee act of 1958.
the literacy test of 1917 also exists as another american law limiting the number of persons entering the u.s. as refugees.
trumps administration and its handling of immigrants through the existing refugee act further revealed the real interest behind the many bottlenecks in the law schoenholtz et al., 2021.