the visual working memory vwm is one of the most widely researched classifications of wm, also traditionally deemed to use and retain only consciously perceived information persuh, larock  berger, 2018.
due to the suggestion that vwm can operate on nonconscious input, research over the recent decade has therefore challenged the idea that wm and consciousness are tightly connected and explored vwm as a potentially nonconscious method of information processing persuh, larock  berger, 2018.
however, despite a multitude of research over the past decade, studies have focused on the memory storage function of vwm ansorge, kunde  kiefer, 2014, leaving a prominent gap in the research regarding the relationship between the executive function of vwm and consciousness.
the present study seeks to address the gap in the research regarding the executive function of vwm and consciousness.
to corroborate current findings and address methodological challenges found in prior research of vwm and consciousness velichkovsky, 2017 this study seeks to determine executive function of the vwm to compare the process which requires a use of multiply stored visual information, using a dual model of a cfs and delayed matchtosample paradigm.
aim the aim of this study is to determine the relationship between vwm and unconscious content identification using a dual cfs and delayed matchtosample paradigm to determine executive functioning as an unconscious process.
this study will follow a modified structure of bergstrm and eriksson 2017 experiment on nonconscious wm to determine what wm processes can occur independently of consciousness awareness, with a focus on the central executive of vwm.
this study will use a withinsubject design, where each participant will undergo a dual cfs and delayed matchtosample task in 3 trial conditions 120 conscious, 180 nonconscious, and 60 with no target, which serves as the baseline.
the present research will adapt the bergstrm and eriksson 2017 methods, without the fmri component, to focus on the objective measure tasks figure 2.
trials from baseline and nonconscious conditions of visibility rating 1, no perceptual awareness, and conscious condition rating 3, clearalmost clear perceptual experience, will be used in data analysis.
this project is interesting in consciousness research as it uses a novel form of the bergstrm and eriksson 2017 experiment, adapted to explore the role of executive function.
these adaptations present an enhanced and novel methodology geared to determining the role of vwm executive function as nonconscious information process.
furthermore, if the goals are achieved, unconscious wm executive function will be determined by selection recognition to the visual items presented, being above chance level across all trials.
finding a link between executive functioning and nonconscious cognitive processes could allow for future studies to explore unconscious execution of wm tasks.
in contrast, participants achieving results in the below or at chance level in the paradigm of this study would suggest that executive function may not play a role in nonconscious information processing.