the most vulnerable to the coronavirus infection remain healthcare workers, who constantly deal with covid patients.
fifteen subjects 27 reported ocular symptoms in the course of covid19, including sore eyes, itching, foreign body sensation, tearing, redness, dry eyes, eye secretions, and floaters hong et al., 2020.
in addition, a further three subjects claimed to have worn face masks without eye protection during close contact with confirmed covid19 cases but were nevertheless still infected hong et al., 2020.
the microenvironment of the ocular surface and the stability of the tear film could be adversely affected by a generalized systemic immune system reaction to the respiratory infection by the sarscov2 virus hong et al., 2020.
multiple cases report detailed accounts of patients presenting to the ophthalmologist with conjunctivitis and no other symptoms of covid19 infection that were later found to be covid19 positive on pcr testing olson et al., 2020.
2020 shows that ocular findings may be the only manifestation of systemic covid19 infection, and eye care professionals run the risk of not only becoming infected but also infecting many patients in a highrisk population.
the novel coronavirus rna was also detected in tears and conjunctival samples from the infected individual xia et al.
the conducted research indicates that the tear and conjunctival secretions of patients without conjunctivitis may not transmit the coronavirus infection.
the possibility that patients with severe acute respiratory diseases are more vulnerable to the ocular manifestation of covid19 infection exists.
with the worldwide spread of covid19 infection, scientists and clinicians from all over the world are actively seeking potential treatments for coronavirus infection.
ocular manifestations in covid19 are rare enough, though the conjunctiva remains vulnerable to sars cov2 and requires appropriate protection as well as treatment.
according to the conducted research, vaccination may be the most suitable method of treating coronavirus at the moment since it does not entail any ocular complications.
hong, n., yu, w., xia, j., shen, y., yap, m.,  han, w.
ophthalmic manifestations of coronavirus disease 2019 and ocular side effects of investigational pharmacologic agents.
xia, j., tong, j., liu, m., shen, y.,  guo, d.