from the perspective of business accounting, risk management involves the assessment, evaluation, and mitigation of risk within the practices of an organization.
accountants have an important role in helping organizations with internal controls and risk management processes.
accountants are most effective at risk management when they have an understanding of enterprise risk management erm and applications of daily operations of a business.
there is an inherent interdependence between risk management, managerial accounting, and corporate governance van der poll  mthiyane, 2018.
this once again demonstrates the triangle, sidebyside interdependence between corporate governance, risk management, and management accounting, and companies should recognize this interdependence van der poll  mthiyane, 2018.
therefore, to understand how accounting systems influence risk management, it is important to view the firm as a governance coordinating mechanism for information provided to individuals.
this fits into the new paradigm of management accounting which calls to broaden its professional strategic scope and be better than a myopic view of planning and control, measuring the performance of the past and being able to make forwardpredictive measurements about organizational sustainability and risk bento et al., 2018.
risk management and planning for its mitigation are some of the critical elements from an accounting perspective.
risk management is a key element of accounting, collaborating with organizational management to identify, evaluate, and mitigate deviations from the planned course of actions and finances.
this paper demonstrates the importance for organizations to invest in reactive risk management systems and accounting foundations in order to navigate and mitigate risks safely and effectively as part of competent governance and corporate sustainability.
risk management and internal control a study of management accounting practice .
accounting for financial instruments a guide to valuation and risk management.
does enterprise risk management impact accounting quality?
how management accountants mitigate risk in an uncertain world .
the interdependence of risk management, corporate governance and management accounting.