antisocial personality disorder in tooles a confederacy of dunces essay
it has been widely discussed that ignatius shares many traits in common with the author of the book as john kennedy toole also failed to become a successful member of his community and american society maclauchlin.
reilly can be seen as a good illustration of the behaviors and choices of people with antisocial personality disorder who are doing their best to find a place in their communities.
ignatius and his antisocial personality at home and in the community
indulging oneself is one of the most conspicuous traits of ignatius, which is also one of the major symptoms of antisocial personality disorder.
individuals diagnosed with this health condition tend to indulge themselves and try to have a hedonist way of life as they pay little attention to other peoples feelings or needs maass 9.
clearly, being such a selfcentered person suggests that the man has symptoms of antisocial personality disorder.
other common symptoms of antisocial personality disorder are arrogance and deceitfulness.
people with antisocial personality disorder are characterized by a high degree of arrogance, which is associated with antisocial behavior stanton and zimmerman 439.
instead of trying to make a good start and earn money, ignatius has a daily plan to sell five or six hot dogs quickly, park the wagon somewhere, and get to that theater toole 164.
again, instead of trying to build proper relationships with his mother, ignatius prefers to pay no attention to the old woman.
the inability and unwillingness to develop relationships with others, including family members, is another sign of antisocial personality disorder maass 9.
the central outcome of antisocial personality disorder tends to be the inability of the affected person to fit in, which is the case with ignatius.
toole depicted the protagonist of his story as a person somewhat torn between the world of the modern american and medieval societies freese 358.
the protagonist is an arrogant, abusive, manipulative, and indulgent person who cannot fit in with his community.
all these traits are signs of antisocial personality disorder that can be caused by different factors.
reilly is an indulgent and manipulative person, which are also symptoms of antisocial personality disorder.
irrespective of the nature of the disorder, ignatius is an illustration of a person with a certain psychological issue.