national shipbuilding procurement strategy in canada essay
the national shipbuilding procurement strategy, commonly referred to as the national shipbuilding strategy nss, is a longterm initiative that aims to rebuild canadas shipments, notably the canadian coast guard and the royal canadian navy collins, 2021.
in addition, between 2012 and 2016, the initiative granted 6.1 billion in concessions, with 3,926, 585, 1,510, and 123 million allotted to big warships, small boats, replacement, refurbishment, and upkeep, and supplies, correspondingly public services and procurement canada, 2016.
as a result, the nations shipbuilding sector has grown enormously since the nss project was implemented, supporting considerable gdp development and providing jobs for thousands of canadians.
for example, bluedrop training  simulation of halifax was granted a 15 million agreement in april 2016 to develop cuttingedge simulated teaching and computation operating systems and innovations public services and procurement canada, 2016.
the purpose was to arrange and train employees for the arctic and offshore patrol ships being constructed under canadas national shipbuilding strategy.
has been approved to provide irving shipbuildings halifax shipyard with significant turbine machinery, saltwater, and corrosion prevention components at the cost of around 1 million public services and procurement canada, 2016.
irving shipbuilding, for instance, contributes 0.5 of the cost of its contracts in research into strategies to develop a sustainable maritime economy in the nation public services and procurement canada, 2016.
for example, in 2014, one of irving shipbuildings subcontractors, lockheed martin canada, won a bid to modernize the weapons on new zealands anzacclass vessels predicated on its considerable knowledge of the nss software system public services and procurement canada, 2016.
the present state of the nsps includes the arctic offshore patrol ships aops that consists of 6 warships public services and procurement canada, 2016.
to fully assess the berlin class, offtheshelf ship design from thyssenkrupp marine systems canada public services and procurement canada, 2016.