this research project aims to study the lack of examination for gonorrhea and chlamydia among high school students in the u.s. unfortunately, not every teenager with these illnesses knows about these infections because they do not often get tested.
numerous factors might affect the decision not to take tests for chlamydia or gonorrhea.
studying the lack of visiting clinicians for testing for stds like chlamydia or gonorrhea is helpful for further study of the reason for this phenomenon.
in this study, data was extracted from ed visits, where a rapid test for these infections was done to patients of different ages, gender, and race from 2012 to 2014 dretler et al., 2020.
the study reviewed charts of young people in correctional facilities of hawaii and who were tested for stis from 2014 to 2018 francisconatanauan et al., 2021.
the authors reported that 62 of adolescents refused to be tested for chlamydia and gonorrhea francisconatanauan et al., 2021.
this study found that african americans were at greater risk of testing positive for stis.
evaluation of the performance of a pointofcare test for chlamydia and gonorrhea.
the study compared the rapid pointofcare assay and three other commercial tests for detecting gonorrhea and chlamydia.
screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea u.s. preventive services task force recommendation statement.
the authors suggest that screening young women for chlamydia and gonorrhea is beneficial for preventing further complications.
despite the availability of contraception methods, the rates of chlamydia and gonorrhea infections are increasing among youth pol et al., 2020.
therefore, this study explores if such factors as age, gender, and race influence the probability of not being tested for these infections.
in summary, gonorrhea and chlamydia infections became increasingly prevalent among youth because they refused contraception use and testing.
hypothesis 1 youth is less likely to get tested for gonorrhea and chlamydia.
evaluation of the performance of a pointofcare test for chlamydia and gonorrhea.
screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea u.s. preventive services task force recommendation statement.