the restriction by the government has been enforced to promote the limitation of the content display that is only necessary for the user.
the government maintains control and warning over the destructive content and ensures prevention of the teen from consuming the adult concepts present on the web.
according to potter  goldsmith, 2017 many young people lack control over the social media platforms that are consumed for entertainment.
any person who uploads offensive information or material on the net without ensuring that the teen cannot access the content should be held accountable, and it is an offense, according to the law.
others believe that internet users should control and limit the content they view or get entertained with.
the entertainment sector has been regulated and controlled from exposing unnecessary content to the public.
for instance, the new york government in the united states enforced a law that it is acceptable to restrict destructive and unworthy entertainment to protect children from pornography and safeguard the adults population from consuming indecent materials.
the government has also regulated the radio and television programs and designed to control of the content they broadcast.
according to devictor  do, 2017 the greatest challenge faced is that the larger population has been addicted to many online platforms, which affects the government in implementing the restriction programs.
the internet restriction has to be an individual choice, not a public decision, and the internet limits no one to access the content.
the government has the mandate to regulate the web and ensure that not all individuals can access national information.
lastly, the different nations have the total power and authority to control the net consumption, ensuring that only the required content is granted access.
the security of the internet is based on the nature of content displayed, the government ensures the censorship of the sites which are likely to lead to threats.