the lockheed martin firms cultural communications essay
cultural interaction refers to the use of speech and other expressive tools by individuals and societies to carry out their operations and responsibilities through symbolic resources tombleson et al.
even the medium of communication chosen may have cultural implications tombleson et al.
how cultural communications affect lockheed martins managers globally culture
additionally, there are genderspecific restrictions regarding facial expression, with many eastern cultures prohibiting women from maintaining eye contact with men since it indicates power or physical intimacy lee et al.
the intensity at which people talk has a culturally specific connotation for instance, british english speakers employ volume to communicate wrath, but indian english speakers use volume to command attention.
for instance, in the united states, people stand to demonstrate respect, while in specific polynesian communities, individuals sit ferraro 87.
cultural norms regarding when and how specific speech actions may vary significantly ferraro 67.
individuals in these cultures frequently employ language as a potent instrument for discovering and expressing truth, extending oneself, and influencing others ferraro 68.
quietness can symbolize respect in certain asian cultures ferraro 68.
other cultures place a higher premium on communicative activities than on written correspondence.
cultural communication is a branch of research that examines how individuals from other civilizations interact in similar and unlike ways and how they attempt to engage via their respective societies.
the most critical components of cultural communication in business include initial reactions, initiating and concluding talks, identifying relevant discussion subjects, honoring others throughout dialogues, and learning how to interrupt people without generating misconceptions.
cultural communication is key in commerce however, failing to practice appropriate cultural interaction might result in a person being unwittingly offended.
culture and communication an introduction.
the role of cultural communication norms in social exclusion effects.