given the importance of using accurate data for making investment decisions, it is critical to apply reliable measurement techniques to track changes in the value of assets and liabilities saastamoinen et al., 2020.
the international financial reporting standards ifrs defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date ifrs foundation, 2021, p.
in the next section of this brief, i will outline the theoretical basis for the development of the fair value assessment model, as explained by the asset, depreciation, and profitability theories.
these accounting guidelines demonstrate that the asset theory provides a holistic assessment of value based on the historical, maintenance, or acquisition costs of an asset or liability.
most organizations seek to maximize their profits by taking into account the financial value of an asset as well as its condition at the time of sale ujwarygil and nalepka, 2018.
therefore, calculations of fair value assessment should be done by accounting for the nonperformance value of an asset.
the benefit is aligned with the accuracy of data it provides because there is synchrony in the movement of prices and valuation techniques adopted in fair value measurement ntim et al.
for example, it provides more information about an asset or liability, such as its historical cost and market value, compared to other techniques chen et al.
the information obtained from fair value measurement is also thorough, in the sense that it requires all participants to disclose relevant information about valuation, including the methodologies used and any risks or assumptions made in the process lehner et al.
therefore, they highlight the need to exercise caution when applying the fair value assessment model because they believe it does not outline measurement or disclosure requirements needed in making transactions reinstein et al ., 2020.
the risk of value reversal could occur when there are fluctuating market conditions where assets or liabilities are traded, thereby making conditions volatile for sale drake et al.
fair value accounting should also not be applied in uncertain times because conditions are rife for developing misleading reports, especially when large swings in value are published as accurate prices of assets or liabilities.
given the importance of using accurate data for making investment decisions, the justification for this analysis is founded on the need to apply reliable measurement techniques to track changes in the value of assets and liabilities.
fair value assessment emerges as a reliable measure for use in your company because its merits are centered on its ability to provide a true measure of income, timely data, and an accurate valuation of the worth of assets and liabilities.
overall, fair value measurement is a reliable metric for tracking changes to a companys assets or liabilities.