one of the key plan metrics was the information of the office for national statistics on the population estimates for greater manchester, which demonstrated an increase of 200 thousand people over the past decade places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
additionally, the report utilised information about socioeconomic measures for greater manchester, including levels of economic activity, qualifications, occupation, household incomes, house prices, which was also produced by the office for national statistics places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
for instance, the report informs its sustainability section based on the greater manchester spatial energy plan places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
based on such information, the authors of places for everyone state that the new spatial plan for greater manchester can actually contribute to the transformation and subsequent achievement of better economic performance.
the authors come to a conclusion that the unchecked development of the area will lead to greater disparities between the north and south of the region since the majority of economic activity will take place in the south places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
for instance, multiple criteria analysis was used by the authors of the initiative in order to conduct a site selection procedure and determine which areas will be used as part of the places for everyone development plan.
there are nine key components inclusive growth, spatial strategy, core growth area, inner area regeneration, boosting northern competitiveness, sustaining southern competitiveness, main town centres, strategic green infrastructure, a sustainable and integrated transport network places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
the monitoring process contains kpi targets such as significant growth in employment and housing in the core growth area, which enable the plan authors to track the implementation process places for everyone joint development plan, 2021.
community is the key element in every spatial development plan, and places for everyone focuses on local stakeholders in every aspect of its strategy.
for instance, the plan states that by creating new businesses and jobs, local residents will promote the economic development of greater manchester.
the plan can be considered of exemplary quality because it does not only provide an account of the spatial changes which will take place in greater manchester but also stipulates economicgrowth initiatives.
the places for everyone plan is a longterm spatial development project developed specifically for the greater manchester area, and namely, nine of its districts.
places for everyone greater manchester consulted over new homes plan 2021 web.