the goal of the campaign is to destigmatize, educate, encourage, and stimulate mental health aid for students on campus.
first of all, i updated the statistics on mental health issues among college students that reveal prevalent factors and disorders 2020 mental health in america  youth data, n.d..
there are several key issues that must be considered when creating a mental health campaign.
this fact is revealed in the low number of students who decided to seek help from a mental health specialist in the past year 2020 mental health in america  youth data, n.d..
the campaign that was created by the california mental health services authority aims to cover a vast majority of mental health issues through a complex network of services and associations.
its primary goal is to help others create a social safety net by providing free space to share ones troubling thoughts, discuss life challenges and other adverse experiences mental health, n.d..
with the lack of focus on a particular issue, this campaign attempts to reach as many people as possible to normalize talking about ones mental health with friends, relatives, and specialists alike.
despite the wellplaced intentions to assist those who suffer from mental health disorders, the campaign did little to nothing positive for those who experience more serious issues with their psyche moore, 2019.
the letters that followed the article published by moore provided an inside view of this campaign, further highlighting the issues with disregard toward people with severe mental health issues.
some participants who received help from this campaign were left on their own after a short interaction that did not provide any longterm solution to their problems how can every mind matter in a broken mental health system?, 2019.
the campaign specifically targeted students who were hiding their mental health issues instead of seeking help.
this campaign was also organized by the california mental health services authority, yet it had a more specific target audience, scope, and approach in comparison with each mind matters.