therefore, the concept of comparative politics will be applied to the two selected counties political unit systems to point out both similarities and differences.
therefore, canada and unites states are different countries the two have political systems and units that differ in operation and how the vital process occurs.
according to john wesley dafoe 2022, the political systems of the united states and canada exhibit some similarities and differences.
the judicial systems are similar in that the canadian system consists of many federal courts at the province level, equivalent to the united states federal courts in different states dauvergne 2018, p.
the modern politics witnessed in the united states is a result of two major parties, the democrats and the republicans, which have been the dominating parties since the dawn of unites states politics dippel 2022, p.
about democracy the united states practices representative democracy, where leaders are elected to represent other citizens in the national senate, congress, and local governments hess  renner 2019, p.
although there are some minority parties in the united states political system, the state could be referred to as a twoparty political system because the country only has two dominant parties with high odds of winning an election.
canada exhibits a different political system from that of the united states.
elazars theory holds that american political culture is divided into distinct cultures, including moralistic, individualist, and traditionalistic lpez 2022, p.
elazars theory portrays american political culture as moralistic in that the government is seen as a means that caters to society by ensuring citizens welfare lpez 2022, p.
elazars theory also states that the united states system could also be experiencing an individualist political culture.
81, canada and the united states present diverse differences in election laws and how the process is conducted.
on the other hand, the united states laws do not restrict citizens on how to campaign, provided that the president has been elected howard, woolley and calo 2018, p.
in this paper, comparative politics has been applied to canadian and united states political systems and has pointed out the similarities and differences that exist as the political system units are concerned.
the systems that have been compared are the government functionalities, political parties, political cultures, and election laws and electoral processes.