in regard to medicine, generic drugs may be perceived as lowerquality products since they are significantly cheaper than branded counterparts.
therefore, brandname drugs and properly approved generic medicines are essentially identical from the perspective of chemistry.
lower cost can serve as a valuable competitive advantage however, patients and even medical professionals may also perceive it as a sign of worse generic drug quality compared to the original brand name product.
therefore, the development and manufacturing process of both brand name and generic drugs is logically covered by medicinal chemistry.
west, the former deputy director of the office of generic drugs, the review process of brand name medicines and generics is identical from the first to the fifth stage n.d..
both branded drugs and generics undergo a review of chemical composition, manufacturing process, testing stage, labeling, and inspections west, n.d..
as such, the development of generic drugs is devoid of invention, research, and experiments since the goal of their manufacturers lies in replicating someone elses achievements rather than creating a new product.
the labor of generic medicine manufacturers may be much less complicated in the chemistry context, but its result is vital for the people who cannot afford brandname drugs.
in the end, the invention of a new brandname drug is similar to making a discovery in medicinal chemistry, whereas manufacturing generics does not require experimenting and ultimately involves less creative thinking.
generic drugs fall in the latter case since they are not lower in quality than corresponding brand name products anderson, 2019.
from the perspective of medicinal chemistry, it is quite true that generic drugs do not possess originality.
therefore, generic drugs cost less due to eliminating the medicinal chemistry aspect from the research and development process.
from the perspective of chemistry, the properly approved and correctly manufactured generic drugs are no worse than their branded counterparts.
original manufacturers possess the same legal right to apply for generic drug registration after the patent for their original product expires.
l. n.d. generic drugs .