analysis of bottega veneta brand report
bottega veneta is a worldwide famous brand, but its performance might need a boost owing to the companys recent growth needs.
bottega will be capable to establish a novel production line by developing the brand impression in a way that relates it to the firms principal identity.
assuring customers that their daily routines are comfortable while adding a touch of luxury, bottega will be able to develop an entirely new and extraordinarily profitable brand.
indeed, these women appreciate comfort above everything else and are willing to spend their money on highend bottega brand items.
bottegas majority of items are premium priced because to their exquisite brands and highquality textiles zhang and zhao, 2019.
brand personality
to boost bottegas brand equity, especially with its new range of items, one must examine kellers brand equity model see fig.
thus, bottegas new range of goods brand equity should be organized on the use of high quality, inventive design to infuse moments of luxury into their customers daily lives.
bottega will heavily on the strength of its present brand in the early phases of advertising its new items.
while the current bottega brand in the desired corporate environment is largely rooted in luxury, the successor one must be grounded on practicality and presented as useful in everyday life.
luxury elements, such as unique architecture and materials used in the new products, will be offered as bonus items, helping to raise brand recognition brunetti, confente, and kaufmann, 2019.
like bottega veneta, the new brand should focus on artisanship and everyday convenience, if not luxury.
bottega will seek to enlighten the community about its new venture, generate curiosity in the new everyday product brand, and encourage target shoppers to acquire them.
bottega will retain ownership of the intellectual property and goods, since the new brand will be released under its name.
brand content generates social media followers and dialogues that result in new clients.
execution of the brand
in the instance of the bottega fashion brand, using digital technology, particularly social media platforms, in conjunction with a solid market positioning boosts brand recognition among consumers.