juvenile recidivism rates may be defined as the number of young people who commit crimes, receive sentences, serve their time, and get convicted again for repeated offenses.
however, on the basis of multiple studies, the major reasons for recidivism among juvenile offenders include individual characteristics, social environment, an offenders age, criminal history, substance abuse, poor academic performance, and the type of incarceration.
the method used for this study is a literature review  relevant sources were chosen for their subsequent analysis and the summary of information related to the issue of juvenile recidivism rates.
according to the results, regardless of the fact that juvenile recidivism rates are not thoroughly tracked, the development and promotion of preventative and responsive strategies are essential.
juvenile recidivism rates may be defined as the number of young people who commit crimes, receive sentences, serve their time, and get convicted again for repeated offense.
in general, juvenile recidivism rates indicate a systems success or failure as it aims to deter offenders to commit crimes again.
at the same time, the most appropriate strategies of juvenile recidivism prevention remain unclear while young people tend to recommit crimes more frequently in comparison with adults.
in general, there are multiple factors that lead to juvenile recidivism, including individual characteristics, mental health disorders, social environment, family, the type of confinement, and criminal history.
addressing them implies the collaboration of almost all governmental systems for crime and recidivism prevention, efficient approaches and programs, and the support of juvenile offenders aftercare.
the existence of these factors and their impact on juvenile recidivism rates is supported by the study of pataki et al.
after the examination of reoffending among almost 3,000 juveniles, they found out that more than 95 had problems in four or more of the following areas mental health, substance abuse, behavior at school, academic performance, handicapping conditions, household characteristics, criminal or abusive family environment, or personal relationships with other family members pataki et al., n.d., p.
in 2004, the efficiency of this law was evaluated and according to the results, the focus on programs, including aggression replacement training and family therapy, contributed to the decrease of juvenile recidivism rate by 24 within the period of eighteen months after release mst services, 2018.
as previously mentioned, for his study, doyle 2019 collected data of 30,000 juvenile offenders from illinois to evaluate the rates of recidivism and its impact on education.
on the basis of search that included juvenile recidivism, factors of juvenile recidivism, and prevention of juvenile recidivism, available peerreviewed articles and credible internet resources were identified for their subsequent analysis and the summary of information related to the issue of juvenile recidivism rates.
on the basis of psychological expertise and multiple studies, the major reasons for recidivism among juvenile offenders include the following
the criminal justice system may contribute to high juvenile recidivism rates by a poor and inconsistent program approach and lack of support at the stage of aftercare.