the early cherokee nation and modern us culture research paper
this paper aims at discussing the role of the early cherokee community through their tribal structure, food, art and music, and religion that influenced the current culture in the united states.
how the early cherokee nation inspired the modern culture of the united states
as discussed herein, the cherokee were not an exception since their traditional culture involving art and music, food, tribal structure, and religion significantly impacted contemporary americas lifestyle.
in the cherokee culture, songs frequently contain seven lines that must be recited four times, as the community considers these numerals sacred.
the modern american song structure borrows much from the cherokees art of music.
the woodwind flute has appeared in contemporary american pop music, most likely due to cherokees influence on americas music 3 gillreathbrown 430.
music in cherokee tradition had a specific purpose, as it is integral to various facets of tribal life.
christianity, notably the chanting of christian melodies, became ingrained in cherokee culture.
numerous parallels emerged between cherokee theology and contemporary christianity practiced in the united states.
the modern american christian society has borrowed much of its faith from the cherokee natives.
the storage of the vast harvest to be of importance during the winter periods among the cherokee natives can be demonstrated today through the concept of warehousing among the american population.
for instance, the early cherokee native groups art and music, religion, food, and tribal structure are practiced by americans today.
united states songwriters like lady gaga have used cherokees music and art vocables in her bad romance song.
moreover, cherokees belief and faith in a supernatural spirit named the great spirit is practiced among the modern christian americans who share a common faith in one supreme being, whom they call god.
the concept of storing food to cater to their needs during the winter season among the cherokee nation individuals is carried out in contemporary america through warehousing activities.
powwows were an essential component of the cherokees greater identification as native americans since they allow for the continuation of educating traditional music and stories.
4. even though religious conservatives viewed converts and christianity as foreign influences, many cherokee natives agreed with preachers like samuel worcester.