the cocacola company uses an image of the one and only original beverage drinks manufacturer the corporations positioning is focused on the jovial inspiration of the customer brennan, crawford, and khamis, 2020.
the given advertisement see exhibit a is a cocacola video ad dedicated to the christmas of 2021.
the main objective of this advertisement is to promote the brands values, sustain the corporate image of the coca company, and advertise the drinks integrity in modern life.
therefore, one of the inherent parts of cocacolas advertising and the message that is present in the reviewed ad is the idea that cocacola is an original beverage drink that cannot be replaced.
undoubtedly, not every company has a need to use a particular usp in order to successfully advertise a product such is the case of cocacola presman, 2017.
as a result, this ad holds on to the main marketing strategy of a company and continues to mark the extent of joy that this particular product may bring into a customers life.
if to consider the cocacola companys long history of christmas advertising, it can be noted that the main delivered idea is being constantly repeated.
the ad attempts to sustain the popularity of various concepts among the customers due to these concepts, which will be discussed below, the company focuses its advertising on a middleclass customer with a family.
the longestablished celebrations, such as christmas, usually imply family reunions thereby, the cocacola ad tries to promote the idea that the companys beverage drinks are part of this household spirit.
in the case of cocacola, most of the corporations advertising attempts are focused on the consumers level of awareness and on sustaining the corporate image excluding the cases when a company presents a new product.
on the other hand, the companys principle of bringing joy and happiness into its customers life is the key point of advertising thus, this aspect of the ad seems quite convincing.
although the ad does not promote the idea that cocacola will undoubtedly make a customer happy, the message is focused on being happy together with cocacola susanthi and pramita, 2019, p.5.