however, innovative methods of data storing and management provide artists with the chance to establish new forms of art, and digital curation is one of the unique concepts associated with it.
in such a way, the term digital curation and its etymology are linked to the concept of the database, its management, and the new opportunities it offers to individuals.
moreover, as stated previously, artists started looking for new environments to store and maintain their digitalized work after creation, which also preconditioned a critical alteration in the role of a curator.
in such a way, the etymology of the term digital curation ascents to the concepts of database, its aesthetics, and the emergence of new forms of art, along with the need to manage them.
in such a way, digital curation becomes a fundamental concept necessary for the further rise of modern art because of its focus on innovative forms.
second, new media works might employ innovative forms of interacting with metadata and databases, which will also imply the appropriate alterations in the understanding of how digital curation works.
this new media work also demonstrates the idea of digital curation, as it presupposes the need to store artworks created by beeple, maintain them, and investigate contexts  beeple .
however, considering the scope of tasks peculiar to digital curation, carnivore can also be considered a case involving new types of containers demanding specific approaches to manage data and work with it.
for this reason, it is possible to predict the fast evolution of digital curation and its becoming one of the most effective tools to work with new media and art it might generate.
in such a way, digital curation ascends to the ideas of information management and processing.
in conclusion, digital curation has become one of the ways to store and manage data.
for this reason, digital curation will evolve and acquire new features, critical for an enhanced vision of modern ideas and how they influence different communities.
digital curation is a comparatively new term that is used today when speaking about databases.