legacy community health clinics rewards and recognition plan proposal
the rewards and recognition system is an important element of an organization interested in retaining its employees.
this paper aims to assess the rewards and recognition plan of the legacy community health clinic, a respectable organization with a history of helping the underprivileged, and suggest a new one due to employee complaints.
it targets the populations unmet needs in such fields as pediatrics, dental care, and maternity, engaging in health promotion legacy community health, n.d.a. it covers most of the city, which is made possible by its constant expansion legacy community health, n.d.a. while the center under the current name is relatively new, established in 2005, the precursors, the assistance fund and the montrose clinic functioned for 27 and 17 years, respectively legacy community health, n.d.a. the latters original purpose was to combat sexually transmitted diseases in the gay community, which became more urgent with the aids crisis legacy community health, n.d.a. it was one of the pioneers of hiv testing, developing special programs to conduct the procedure and support patients and their families legacy community health, n.d.a. the assistance fund pursued similar goals, explaining why the two eventually underwent a merger legacy community health, n.d.a. however, the montrose clinic gradually expanded its services, including womens health legacy community health, n.d.a. nowadays, the clinic addresses more needs than ever, although the hiv legacy is also preserved.
the former is formulated in the following way driving healthy change in our communities, suggesting the centers leading role and considerable patient base legacy community health, n.d.b. meanwhile, its vision statement is connecting our communities to health every day, in every way, implying that the clinic will continue to make the services accessible legacy community health, n.d.b. the sentiment is reflected in the primary value, claiming that healthcare is a right, so everyone is entitled to it, paying or experiencing discrimination legacy community health, n.d.b. other relevant moral priorities include the focus on the community, the willingness to address inconvenient issues, and the careful management of the centers resources legacy community health, n.d.b. the clinic positions itself as a last resort for those rejected by other organizations, which requires great responsibility from the staff.
organizational culture is a relatively new concept for the legacy community health clinic, which explains several flaws in the rewards and recognition program.
personal viewpoints on the current rewards and recognition program
the current rewards and recognition program at the legacy community health clinic appears flawed from a personal perspective.
primary research was undertaken through a fifteenquestion survey, aiming to under the nature of the current rewards and recognition system, its basis, and the impact on the employees, including mutual encouragement.
the surveys results demonstrated several negative trends in the organizations rewards and recognition program, as the maximum score given by the participants is 6 out of 10, as seen in figure 1.
as mentioned, the employees link rewards with achievements, meaning that unexpected and random acts of recognition are rare.
the new program should comply with the smart approach to enhance the recognition aspect and make employees feel valued, which is almost absent under the current system.
the current program lacks informal recognition in the relevant aspect, so the plan should include them to encourage the staff to view the entire system in a less formalized way.
the plan focuses on the managers as the main providers of intrinsic rewards, including verbal forms of expressing appreciation and personal attention elmada  ellinger, 2017.
the employees are also given many opportunities to express their mutual recognition, and a special reward for those particularly passionate about uplifting others will be introduced.
this paper evaluated the existing rewards and recognition plan at the legacy community health clinic and discovered its flaws.
as only one strength is present, a new program was suggested to replace the current one, following the smart approach, respecting individual employees, and encouraging their involvement in the process.
trending reward and recognition programs in organizations .