are virtual clinics an effective tool for the healthcare system of saudi arabia during the covid19 pandemic?
the current article status of telehealth in saudi arabia during covid19 is aimed at exploring the current state of things concerning the role of telemedicine in providing healthcare services in saudi arabia during the coronavirus pandemic of 20192021.
the main objectives of the scientific research concern the generalizing of all the literature sources on the subject of using virtual clinic technologies during the covid19 pandemic in saudi arabia alghamadi et al., 2020.
the others are titled measurement of patient satisfaction with the trend of virtual clinics during the covid19 pandemic and patients perceptions and satisfaction with the outpatient telemedicine clinics during the covid19 era in saudi arabia.
all three have the assessment of the saudi arabian patients content with the virtual clinic system that was popularized in the country after the beginning of the covid19 pandemic as their primary objectives alwabili et al., 2021, thirunavukkarasu et al., 2021.
the research objectives concern the establishment of the ratio of saudi arabian citizens attitudes and the degree of trust towards virtual clinics yamin,  alyoubi, 2020.
to fulfill the aim of the study, which is to assess the influence of virtual clinics on the healthcare system of saudi arabia during the covid19 pandemic, different aspects of the issue need to be scrutinized carefully.
overall, such points as peoples satisfaction with telemedicine, its impact on the work of healthcare professionals, and the current status of virtual clinics in saudi arabia should be examined to provide a profound and detailed analysis.
the main methods of the research, in that case, should first concern the search and collection of scientific articles on the topic of virtual clinics influence on saudi arabian medicine.
analysis of the corresponding articles and the statistical data they possessed concerns the establishment of the actual influence of the virtual clinic system on healthcare in saudi arabia during the covid19 pandemic.
further research is aimed at establishing whether a virtual clinic system is an effective tool that helps reduce the load on the medical system during the covid19 pandemic in saudi arabia.
hence, the research should take into account the ratio of patient satisfaction with the virtual clinic system in saudi arabia, the advantages and disadvantages of the system, and its efficiency in terms of the pandemic.
a. 2021.patient satisfaction with virtual clinic during coronavirus disease covid19 pandemic in primary healthcare, riyadh, saudi arabia, journal of family  community medicine, 281, pp.