the speech centered on the general theme of changing the world, referencing the universitys slogan what starts here changes the world mcraven, 2014, para.
mcraven likened his personal experience at navy seal training to general challenges one should expect to face during his or her life and explained the lessons one should take from them if ones eventual goal is to change the world for the better.
inductive analysis was performed to detect any thematic connections between the speechs themes and generate a theory of the values prescribed in the message as they apply to achieving an eventual ultimate goal farquhar, 2012.
the contents of the speech were coded based on the frequency of certain words appearance and classified then, the codes were interpreted to identify themes emerging in the speechs message gagnon, 2010a miles, et al., 2014.
the two themes are always presented as related while anyone has the opportunity to change the world, particular personal characteristics are required to make use of this opportunity.
changing the world for the better is presented as ones ultimate goal in life.
a significant portion of the speech is dedicated to these challenges and tests, presenting them as necessary counterparts to the positive values required by the ideal.
the ideal is defined by a goal to which one should aspire, and particular personal values required to achieve this goal.
the personal side of the speech is a significant component in conveying the ideal by presenting his allusions as personal experience, adm.
the two major themes identified in the speech can be extrapolated to form two broad categories which can be applied in further research of similar messages gagnon, 2010b.
mcravens speech, this category is represented by the broad statement of changing the world for the better, and the theme of seemingly insignificant actions being able to affect a significant number of people.
additionally, this category can include descriptions of qualities and values that specifically do not conflict with the ideal, such as background or social status in adm.