this paper seeks to use hofstedes theory to explain apples employee management problems in china.
an overview of apple and its problems in china will be presented after which the challenges will be viewed from the perspectives of hofstedes cultural dimensions theory.
apples crosscultural issues in china
most notably, apple is one of those multinationals that sought to utilize cheap labor in china where the concept of sweatshops implies poor working conditions and low wages bbc, 2020 merchant, 2017 brown, 2019.
in the case of apple, the main issues have to do with employee management issues mostly associated with working conditions and compliance to chinese labor laws.
for many decades, apple has been facing criticism over its employee management practices in china.
apple faces a different national culture in china as compared to many markets across the world.
hofstedes cultural dimensions theory comprises six components power distance, masculinity, individualism, longterm orientation, uncertainty avoidance, and indulgence sannino et al., 2020 escandonbarbosa et al., 2021.
therefore, the idea of cultural distance can apply to this scenario as it highlights how cultural values differ between apples home country the united states and china beugelsdijk et al., 2018.
of the six dimensions, four apply to the case of apple in china power distance, uncertainty avoidance, masculinity, and individualism.
the power distance means that the company can exercise autocratic practices in employee management evidenced by the poor working conditions.
for example, foxconn is the company that is largely responsible for apples production in china.as a supplier and producer of apples products, foxconn is also responsible for many employee management practices that have proven controversial.
apple faced multiple management problems in its operations in china.
hofstedes cultural dimensions theory has been used to examine this problem and reveals that apple cannot have similar operational models and strategies as it has in other countries.
the national culture of china is different from that of other markets and the decisions that apple has to make will have to be aligned with the values of the chinese national culture.