the hospital consumer assessment of healthcare providers and systems survey results show that patient medication and recordkeeping education remain a healthcare problem.
health facilities fall short of the general customs in enlightening patients about medication prescription error and the ways forward in case it happens.
quality of safety education for nurses competency includes patient safety and increased patient satisfaction for health outcomes.
nurses may overlook the numerous possibilities of engaging their patients in learning about their prescription drugs because they have so many responsibilities throughout their shift, thus avoiding errors shindulrothschild et al., 2017.
nurses can use this time during medication administration, which occurs three times a day, to permit patients to contribute to their medical management.
this period helps educate patients about their medications and lets them ask for inquiries about them.
since the training mode is evidencebased, nurses can evaluate patients understanding of all the techniques used in educating them.
patients safety may be jeopardized if they are not adequately educated about their medications.
medication adherence can also be affected by a lack of medication communication between nurses and patients.
qsens patient safety competency captures inadequacy in educating patients on medication kouta et al., 2021.
they should have in mind that when patients education is insufficiently provided, there mergers risks such as medication errors and nonadherence to treatment.
nurses with a masters degree can use patient safety ksas to improve drug communication, leading to better patient outcomes, thus reducing errors in medication.
medication errors due to insufficient staff are to be addressed by using the patients medication education package.
this proposal aims to improve patients treatment education by enhancing their knowledge in medicine, their use, and side effects on the hcaps tally keers et al., 2018.
this will be made possible by printing medication documents and training sessions for all patients on drugs handling.
this will increase patients hcaphs tally outcome regarding medication training.
nurse leaders would round on patients from the beginning of the education packages implementation to ensure that admission files and medication handouts were being given to patients.
patient satisfaction and health outcomes can be improved by successfully communicating about patient medication and side effects utilizing multiple messages and the training method.