human traffickers use social media to find, conduct operations, and manipulate their victims.
a few examples include cyberstalking and prostitution taylor et al., 2019.
human trafficking and cyberstalking may be curbed by addressing the core issues that render individuals susceptible, such as poverty, unemployment, and a lack of safe movement options.
when it comes to things like cyberstalking and prostitution, online grooming, human trafficking, or exploitation, there is no linear process instead, the existing dynamic progression depends on the offenders intent, skills, motivations, and ability to manage and control the victim.
these laws aim to reduce the profiling of children for cyberstalking and prostitution, online grooming, human trafficking, and other forms of exploitation boukemidja, 2018.
other international treaties and directives specifically penalize child exploitation, cyberstalking, and prostitution, as well as human trafficking and exploitation in general.
it is critical to identify viable solutions to reduce the prevalence of cyberstalking, prostitution, human trafficking, exploitation, and child targeting.
human trafficking prevention starts with public education to establish victims and prevent cyberstalking and prostitution obrien, 2017.
advertising is one of the most effective strategies to increase awareness about human trafficking taylor et al., 2019.
ads can help recognize victims and assist in preventing human trafficking holt et al., 2017.
in addition to identifying victims, it is critical to educate internet users on cyberstalking, prostitution, and the effects of trafficking.
multinational cooperation is one of the most effective ways to combat cyberstalking and human trafficking.
interagency task forces that prioritize victim safety may help reduce human trafficking and cyberstalking.
prevention of human trafficking begins with public education to identify victims and to deter cyberstalking and prostitution.
international collaboration is a very successful strategy for combating cyberstalking and human trafficking.