educating patients, spreading the data about the consequences of unwanted habits, supporting, and helping resolve abstinence symptoms are essential nurse practices for the general populations health.
this assignment will focus on the assessment of the developed previously health promotion plan regarding smoking or tobacco usage.
the primary promotion plan focuses on young adults below 25 years old, and to implement some changes, health care workers should target schools and colleges spreading the data about nicotine effects on the system and organs of the human body.
teaching lessons must be inclass format, for all students in the class, and interpersonal meetings with families and health care providers about risks of smoking and approaches to prevent smoking addiction duncan et al., 2018.
allowing smoking patients to receive health aid in both governmental and private chains can enhance the care outcomes by providing constant observation, help on the withdrawal stage, support, help, and motivation by medical workers.
increasing prices on tobaccocontaining products, developing smokefree policies, controlling access to tobacco products, shortening the advertisements popularizing smoking will create better social protection and prevent young adults from being attracted to nicotinecontaining items healthy people 2030, 2020.
regarding copd, all three steps of the prevention plan are relevant to issue solving spreading the consequences of smoking including copd among the young population at schools and colleges, highlighting the risks and life quality impacts the disorder brings in peoples lives, focusing mostly on quitting smoking programs instead of treating copd symptoms severity that tends to come back.
communicating and teaching patients with asthma to avoid smoking as it may be the trigger of the attack is essential for these patients health.
a health care worker cannot judge the patient or push him to make choices, every step of education aims to explain and promote the advantages of a healthy lifestyle.
thus, this health promotion plan focuses on reducing smoking among young adults under 25 years.