the vague language of the current intermountain healthcare ih description of pc results in insufficient elaboration of specific nursing responsibilities such as quality of patient life, caregiver support, and nondiscriminant patient treatment.
a comprehensive pc policy has not been adopted in the ih facilities, leaving care teams to devise an individual approach to each terminal patient, which may be inefficient and result in subpar service.
across the country, many hcps lack knowledge and skills in pain and symptom management, communication, and care coordination, while the public has only a vague understanding of the benefits of pc and how to access them meier et al., 2017.
given a wide range of responsibilities in providing palliative care pc and lack of specific instructions, ih healthcare providers hcps filling only primary orders such as medical prescriptions may coincidentally neglect some care aspects.
therefore, an instructive pc policy is needed to facilitate successful administration and ensure equitable access to care services in the ih facilities.
palliative care in ih facilities pursues several goals quality of patient life, symptom relief, family and caregiver support, and a team approach to care and care aligned with patients aspirations intermountain healthcare, 2018.
in addition to nursing care, patients and their families can expect the care team to cover counseling, emotional and spiritual support, medication and supplies, domestic helper services, and home care in acute need intermountain healthcare, 2022.
supporting this initiative, ih developed a hospitalbased electronic palliative care algorithm to improve the identification of patients benefitting from pc services and calculate pc penetration rates gruhler et al., 2018.
hence, the policy to improve patient care should involve reconsidering the carer support system, as nurses workload can interfere with the quality and quantity of services provided.
there is strong evidence of pc reducing acute unplanned hospitalizations and specialized pc services associated with improved short and longterm care outcomes sleeman et al., 2021.
therefore, improving the policy approach to specialist palliative care would improve patient outcomes.
specifically, there are two downsides resulting from ih policy reliance on the individual pocs in the facilitation of endoflife and palliative care.
patients who receive early specialized pc show improvements in a range of outcomes, including physical symptom control, survival, and quality of life, and caregivers report increased satisfaction and decreased depression sleeman et al., 2021.