this work will explore frankls books ideas, namely aspects such as originality and value, and their relationship with the concepts of other thinkers and philosophers of postmodern and other movements.
one can safely say that frankls magnum opus is a very original work because of not only the philosophical and psychological ideas and concepts that it carries but simply by itself.
the experience of frankls tough survival in an extermination camp, his perspective and perceptions of those apocalyptic events, as well as his inferences developed in those nightmarish conditions that are recorded in mans search of meaning are of significant and unique value.
another thing that contributes to the originality of frankls fundamental work is his wellknown and unique psychiatric concept of logotherapy.
according to the writer, logotherapy focuses rather on the future, that is to say, on the meanings to be fullled by the patient in his future frankl 87.
logotherapy provides the therapist and their patient with the mental tools for avoiding and destroying the neuroses of the latter and thereby encourages patients to build and develop their own meaning in life frankl 87.
the combination of the philosophical foundation of logotherapy supplemented by personal survival experience and its mental essence are those things that make this frankls idea both unique and valuable in disciplines such as philosophy, psychology, history, and sociology.
nietzsche and his philosophical legacy in frankls world view and psychiatric methodology
frankl often quotes nietzsche in his work and utilizes many of his concepts to explain his survival tactics in the nazi camp and his psychological ideas to the audience.
frankl understood the true meaning of nietzsches thoughts, ideas, and aphorisms which helped him build his own will to live and find it for those with mental problems and trauma.
he does this for explanatory purposes to show the development of his unique ideas of the will to the meaning of life and the will to have hope frankl 6.
existentialism and the will to meaning frankl in mans search of meaning
however, frankls ideas are still original as his existentialist worldview was developed naturally, mainly due to the brutal conditions in which he was forcibly placed.