social  cultural diversity and code of ethics essay
4. aca code of ethics and cultural sensitivity
in it, cultural diversity was recognized not only as a fact but also as a source of innovation, exchange, and creativity, which form the basis of human existence as an organic whole.
all this confirms the fact that cultural diversity is constituted in our time as one of the important problems of sociohumanitarian knowledge.
an individual who belongs to a particular ethnic group  which is determined by natural biological reasons  can grow up and develop under different cultural conditions.
for example, a japanese who was adopted by americans and spent his or her whole life in the united states is more likely to accept and adhere to american cultural traditions, principles, and views rather than to the ones of the eastern ethnical group.
the diversity of human culture manifests itself through the presence of various ethnic, national, regional, and local differences.
aca code of ethics and cultural sensitivity
4. then, i am to be culturally competent and sensitive to diversity among families and use culturally inclusive language in all forms of communication asca, 2016, p.
i genuinely believe that being culturally sensitive is critical in the framework of treatment planning as it demonstrates that a counselor is competent to identify cultural issues and develop an efficient treatment plan that would follow a clients particular beliefs and traits.
there are resources to help a counselor become more informed about cultural diversity.
in particular, these may be enrolling in cultural diversity courses, volunteering in organizations and areas not specific to ones own culture, selfassessment, and interacting with diverse groups of people.
in particular, my personal related experience, the essence of subtle racism, the aca code of ethics, and cultural sensitivity, as well as the counselors professional perspective, were explored.
culturally diverse counseling theory and practice.
history and cultural diversity.