therefore, this research aims to examine newcomers social connectedness and personality traits, including conscientiousness, as related factors of psychological stress in the adaptation process in the first year of university studies.
social connectedness is an essential aspect of the successful adaptation of firstyear students and the reduction of their stress levels.
h1 social connectedness has a negative relationship with student stress.
h2 conscientiousness is a positive predictor of student stress.
in addition, the study utilized the social connectedness scale revised to evaluate the degree to which firstyear students were connected to their peers.
hypothesis 2 social connectedness will have a negative relationship with student stress.
in addition, pearson correlation was utilized to establish a clear relationship between the variables being studied social connectedness, and personality with students stress state.
according to the results, a negative significant correlation exists between social connectedness and stress state r426, p001, and positive correlation between conscientiousness and students stress levels r29, p 001.
this study aims at analyzing the effects of personality traits and social connectedness on a transitioning students stress levels.
h1 social connectedness has a negative correlation with student stress.
conscientiousness has a positive correlation with student stress.
however, some students may experience higher levels of stress than others due to their degree of social connectedness and personality traits.
to determine how the two factors influence students stress levels, an online survey was conducted where only firstyear students were eligible participants.
the questionnaires consisted of multiple questions to assist the researchers in vividly establishing the students personality traits and levels of social connectedness.
the results of the analysis reveal a negative correlation between social connectedness and students stress levels.
on the other hand, conscientiousness was found to have a positive correlation to students stress levels.
in broader terms, the students who were socially connected were found to have lesser stress levels, while conscientious students were found to have a higher level of stress.
as this study only specializes in establishing how personal traits and social connectedness influence student stress levels, it does not establish whether financial status is essential in dealing with students psychological state.
shortage or lack of financial support could lead to increased stress levels and affect social connectedness among certain students.
depression, acculturative stress, and social connectedness among international university students in japan a statistical investigation.