the research involved finding the difference between men and women about body image concerns.
the research also established associations between masculinity or femininity and drive for muscularity or body shape concerns and understanding if masculinity correlated with a drive for muscularity.
64 of the participants were women, and 36 were men allowed to complete various measures such as the dms, bsq, and bsri for a personality trait.
the research used anova and correlation to analyze data, and the results showed that men recorded higher on dms, while women indicated higher scores on bsqs.
dms and gender role measures showed men with significantly higher personality traits and the drive for muscularity in the previous study.
in determining the degree for predicting drive for muscularity, men scored higher on the dms than women on controlling gender behaviors gattario et al., 2015.
the research questions for the current study entail finding if there is a difference between men and women in body image amid concern with muscle mass and body fat or shape.
the hypothesis for this research question predicted that men would score higher on dms and women higher on bsqs, as found by mccrearys theory and research findings.
participants recorded different measures of central tendency for both scales such that for dms men mean2.42, sd0.79, bsqs m2.48, sd1.30, bsri masculinity m2.28, sd0.57, and femininity m2.44, sd0.45.
dms scores were positively interrelated with measures of masculinity such that both men and women associated behaviors and traits that are maletypes with the desire for becoming more muscular.
men recorded higher scores on dms, while women indicated higher scores on bsqs, which conformed with the theory of mccreary and previous research findings.
the degree of masculinity was positively correlated with dms, and both women and men interrelated maletyped behaviors and traits with a prerequisite of becoming more muscular.
because the research explores the body image concerns among men and women and attempts to solve limitations that previous studies experienced, this research is suitable for psychological studies.
because men have a different perception of body image concerns than women, including unbalanced study sample participants is likely to cause misleading results.