research suggests that the rational use of music can promote emotional integration and increase consumption impulse hou et al.
music enhances the visual experience of an advertisement and impacts brand information transmission hou et al.
in other words, music can be used to build a brand personality that forms associations and attitudes towards a company, service, or product hou et al.
moreover, in different market segments, consumers emotional experiences from the same music can vary hou et al.
on the other hand, pitch detects how high or low a musical note is but also affects consumers feelings craton et al.
for example, some authors recognize the following music genres classical, blues, dance, pop, rap, country, jazz, latin, rhythm and blues rb, and rock dikius et al.
in general, classical music is often used to promote elegant or sophisticated products breves et al.
with that being said, popular music is the most commonly used genre featured in the promotion of products such as groceries, nonalcoholic beverages, and bodycare products breves et al.
for example, in contrast to mentioned above classical music, rock can be more helpful in portraying confidence and rebellion and should be used to advertise products such as beer or jeans breves et al.
although, as stated earlier, popular music is used more in advertisements, research suggests that companies should consider implementing other genres to create a unique brand image and approach a less generic audience breves et al.
as mentioned before, consumers can have different responses to music used in advertising, so it is crucial to focus on genres appropriate to each brand, product, and service.
for instance, in promoting higher education, people may think of a university as unpleasant if it is advertised with dance music or sophisticated if advertised with classical music breves et al.
as genres of music affect consumers perception of a product and commitment to a brand, companies should be careful in implementing certain tunes.
in addition, while some companies tend to use music in their advertisements, it is also important to analyze the use of environmental music to persuade consumers, which typically is not characterized by committing to one particular genre.
advertising music makes the retail environment pleasing and satisfactory, affecting consumers buying behavior raja et al.
for instance, retailers use classical music to stimulate customers to purchase more expensive products raja et al.
despite its effectiveness, since companies should be careful in implementing music in their advertisements, there is a need for recommendations in selecting tunes that would affect consumers better.
furthermore, although research shows that consumers do not pay much attention to the source of music, it should be determined with caution angladatort et al.
deciding between commissioned, existing, or altered music may affect the production of advertisement and its costs angladatort et al.