my research paper is based on the thesis,  while some people argue that social distance helps society by reducing the spread of covid19, i believe that social distancing diminishes affection.
the emergence of the global pandemic, namely covid19 brought with it the challenges that demand social distancing regardless of the longtime practiced norms.
these determinants go a long way to justify that social distancing limits physical connection and emotional separation.
a positive behavior has been associated with social distancing where people have now been able to develop new skills during their indoor seasons such as baking, flower, and tree management cameron and tenenbaum 235.
the research by cameron on lessons from developmental science to mitigate the effects of the covid19 restrictions further associated the lockdown with the eating of junk foods which poses greater risks of contracting lifestyle diseases that have long time effects on the social health framework cameron and tenenbaum 236.
this breakdown in the quality of health and poor living standards is yet another reason that adds weight to the effects that isolation, separation, and social distancing have impacted in society ammar et al.
the trauma resulting from the laws that prohibit the use of these important faculties is a major point that confirms my argument that, indeed, social distancing has diminished affection, brought physical separation and emotional breakdown.
if this was to go by, then social distance has indeed brought about physical separation and affection.
this is why the argument that social distance has brought physical separation, emotional separation, and reduced affection holds.
the social distance has therefore brought physical separation and hence emotional stress.
surely social distance in society has brought physical separation with detrimental effects.
because of this, it can be said that the wellintended social distance has aggravated the physical distancing and emotional separation all the more.
on this note, it can be said that social distance has broken the necessary bond of physical contact and brought emotional separation.
life satisfaction during forced social distancing and home confinement derived from the covid19 pandemic in spain.