consequently, this assignment required me to attend four different support group meetings, not because i required mental health assistance but to study the processes and activities in the sessions.
i attended an alcoholics anonymous aa group, participating in four different sessions with twelve, five, nine, and nine attendees respectively.
my observations on the content and processes, group members and leader behaviors, group dynamics and participation, and finally, conclusion and application.
additionally, the chairperson would start the meetings by calling other members randomly until each person participating in the discussion.
consequently, the support group hosts meetings every day of the week, which ensures that participants have access to help whenever they are in need.
although there were a few meetings where the discussions were not wellorganized, the general participation and interaction among members were positive.
a support group only achieves its goals and objectives when members actively engage in conversations jacobs et al., 2016.
this approach ensured that every member played a role in running the support group.
additionally, the selected discussion topics were relevant to the challenges faced by the majority of the members, which increased participation.
the structure of the support group and the organization of the sessions ensured that members received equal attention and help.
similarly, the behaviors of the support group members and the leaders played a significant role in accomplishing the programs mission.
i have been a part of discussion teams before but never participated in the therapy of support groups before.
finally, leader and member behaviors play a crucial role in supporting the objectives of an organization.
first, i would involve the members more because i observed that the leaders always selected the discussion topics, which should not always be the case.
the support group is meaningless if there are no structures to help measure the participants achievements.