preserving the great wall heritage site business proposal essay
they propose preserving the great wall heritage site that combines cultural and historical qualities with a forwardthinking modern perspective.
the financial and economic sustainable development in cultural heritage could be achieved by harmonizing the various economic and financial elements blundo et al ., 2018.
the main business idea is to preserve the great wall heritage site that combines cultural and historical qualities with a forwardthinking modern perspective.
the purpose of this proposal is to generally preserve the great wall as a cultural heritage through tourism activities and sales of other merchandise.
the benefits that will accrue as a result of preserving the cultural heritage can be divided into economic, social, and environmental advantages.
additionally, forster 2020 suggests that globally, cultural heritage serves economic growth and placemaking activities.
from the table above, it implies that the site will be generating a revenue of 1238500  12months  14,862,000.furthermore, they propose that the site be sustainable, and the estimation will be employed for ten years.
it is critical to demonstrate the tangible benefits to justify the implications and conservation costs associated with a heritage site listing jones et al., 2017.
the generated revenue of the proposed business idea is 148,620,000, whereas the total costs expected as a result of running the business are expected to be 145,452,000.
according to the projections in table 5, the cash flows will be constant as a result of the strategic alliances the heritage site will enter into.
our business model and monetary strategy will be offered to the cultural heritage since our mission is to disseminate the cultural and historical elements of the heritage worldwide while also pursuing a noble social purpose.
this original cost contributes to upgrading and enhancing the cultural site to achieve the goals of the business proposal.
the business proposal also sought to meet the standard goals of development sdgs in ensuring that sustainability in cultural heritage is attained.
blundo, d.s., ferrari, a.m., del hoyo, a.f., riccardi, m.p. and muia, f.e.g. 2018 improving sustainable cultural heritage restoration work through life cycle assessment based model.
journal of cultural heritage , 32, pp.221231.
development of tourism in china in view of cultural heritage.
2017 conflicting images of the great wall in cultural heritage tourism.
and hosseini, s.p. 2021 world heritage sites in developing countries assessing impacts and handling complexities toward sustainable tourism.
2017 assessing the recreational value of world heritage site inscription a longitudinal travel cost analysis of mount fuji climbers.
and thorell, k., 2018 cultural heritage preservation  the past, the present and the future.
and li, j.j. 2019 sociocultural impacts of tourism on residents of world cultural heritage sites in china.