this essay reviews and explains the investigative journalists brought to light hidden cases of child sexual abuse in the irish catholic society and corruption cases involving government officials.
investigative journalism refers to reports involving indepth investigation on a particular matter hidden from society and has significant impacts on peoples lives.
most investigative reports focus on corruption, government policies, and uncovering dark secrets in society such as cultic groups, sexual abuse, and mysterious murders, among others.
most public was not aware of the sexual abuse acts in the larger society and religious leaders.
irish citizens and the global society were still unconscious of child sexual abuse until the early 21st century when journalists created public awareness through investigations.
victims of sexual abuse in ireland had no one to talk to since most irish societies believed in the sanctity of catholic priests.
the development of media and investigative journalism brought the sexual abuse matter to light in the late 20th century.
journalists brought forward undercover cases about child sexual abuse by catholic clergy, leaving the irish society in dilemma and anger regarding the moral corruption of religious leaders.
the first investigative journalism case brought to light on sexual abuse is the ferns report involving the catholic clergys engagement in child sexual abuse.
in the investigative report, journalists dug out archive records and evidence of sexual abuse complaints for over a decade.
the sexual abuse victims complaints and allegations were confirmed through the investigations, leading to the trial and conviction of the involved priests powell, 2020.
investigative journalism effectively created awareness, leading to the establishment of child protection agencies and policies against sexual abuse.
investigations brought to light the fear and sexual abuse of children and adolescents that was covered well within the religious domain involving priests, nuns, and bishops.
although journalists have the freedom and security to investigate crucial cases involving influential people, european countries investigative journalism is still under customary and civil restrictions, limiting the journalistic coverage of critical issues.