the impact of appbased solutions on commercial businesses essay
appbased solutions are software applications designed for users of mobile and computers to perform a specific task.
due to the millions of smartphone and computer users, commercial businesses use this technology to attract customers and improve their work functionalities turban et al., 2018.
in addition, this technology helps commercial businesses manage their supply chain.
therefore, although there are some shortcomings, businesses use appbased solutions to improve the efficiency of operations in their supply chain.
the focus area of this report is commercial businesses because they are one of the main users of the appbased solution.
the current use of appbased solutions in business, military, or government
thus, an appbased solution is an important marketing tool because it enables businesses to share content with customers.
apart from businesses, appbased solutions play an integral role in increasing efficiency in the military.
in addition, customers can use appbased solutions to communicate with bank agents when they want their concerns addressed fairooz  wickramasinghe, 2019.
businesses are able to cut costs with the use of appbased solutions.
the third argument is that appbased solutions can assist a business launch and managing a direct marketing channel.
a business can offer its products and services directly to end consumers by using this technology tjahjono et al., 2017.
however, when these security issues are not followed effectively by a business and customers using these applications, the applications become vulnerable tjahjono et al., 2017.
for effective use of these applications, a business must invest money and resources.
based on this, businesses offering products and services may find it expensive to use appbased solutions.
individuals without information and communication technology ict skills may find it challenging to use the applications martnez, ferr  marcillo, 2018.
these factors include peer pressure, a lack of management support, and a lack of partner organizations adopting applications to allow reciprocal business transactions martnez, ferr  marcillo, 2018.
in addition, businesses are required to recruit application experts to help with their management.
based on this, the adoption of appbased solutions is threatened if there are still threats of cyberattacks on businesses using information technology to perform their operations.