despite the systematic use of the drug and an increase in tolerance, as well as withdrawal symptoms, m denies his dependence on a psychoactive substance.
patients with a combination of mental and drug addiction pathology adapt much worse in society and are relatively more likely to have low compliance maruta et al., 2016.
substance addicts have a fairly welldeveloped sense of reality that allows them to navigate the world around them, but in cases of severe frustration, they do not use adaptive ways to resolve conflicts and overcome difficulties russo et al., 2021.
the predominance of primitive mechanisms of psychological defense denial, splitting, regression, the effect of which is traced in their reactions to frustration, does not allow them to maintain mental balance and provokes the use of psychoactive substances rivera et al., 2017.
several studies have shown that personality traits and basic beliefs are highly correlated with addictive behavior zilberman et al., 2017.
if, at the inpatient stage, the most urgent tasks are solved development of attitudes for treatment, overcoming anosognosia, the formation of attitudes for sobriety, then at the outpatient stage, work is built with personal problems alessi et al., 2020.
an optimal understanding of the underlying beliefs and mechanisms of psychological defenses of persons with addictive behavior allows for more comprehensive planning of treatment for these patients in accordance with their dominant beliefs and reasons.
also, drug addiction can be likened to any other chronic disease and, just like in other chronic diseases, achieve remission fleury et al., 2016.
people with addiction use substances or engage in behaviors that become compulsive and often continue despite harmful consequences.
as with other chronic illnesses, addiction often involves cycles of relapse and remission mauri et al., 2017.
denial is the most common type of attitude towards drug addiction and is present in almost all people suffering from chemical dependence, and manifests itself mainly in the stubborn distortion of the facts of the disease and its consequences stein et al., 2018.
as for nursing interventions in particular, nurses are responsible for showing the patient the connection between substance abuse and problems, which will be the initial step to a decrease in denial.
the twelve steps program is one of the most effective drug and alcohol rehabilitation programs coco et al., 2019.
this program not only contributes to the acquisition of sobriety from psychoactive substances but also helps to improve the patients quality of life outside the rehabilitation center coco et al., 2019.
reinforcing exercise to improve drug abuse treatment outcomes a randomized controlled study in a substance use disorder outpatient treatment setting .
psychology of addictive behaviors, 34 1, 52.
m.,  belleville, g.
m., kalenska, g.
denial in addiction.
psychodynamic approaches for treatment of drug abuse and addiction theory and treatment.
m. r.
personality profiles of substance and behavioral addictions.