effect of covid19 pandemic on religious tourism in saudi arabia proposal
the study seeks to analyze the effect of covid19 on religious tourism in saudi arabia.
the study will show how covid19 affected religious tourism in the country and give insight into the behavior change in mecca after covid19 was declared a global pandemic.
the research also aims at evaluating the existing remedies on how to deal with the pandemic to protect the saudi arabia tourism sector from its adverse effects.
the study thereby aids in establishing knowledge on how the covid 19 pandemic has affected islamic pilgrimage as a tourism activity in saudi arabia.
other studies offer findings relating to the impact of the covid19 pandemic on global religious tourism.
this study is critical as it aims to provide data on religious tourism in saudi arabia before and after the pandemic.
following the studys objective, the research question is how covid19 affected religious tourism in saudi arabia.
the study then employs a quantitative approach to gather primary data relating to some of the implications of the covid19 to religious tourism in saudi arabia.
this study does not explicitly explain the implications of covid19 pandemic to religious tourism it provides knowledge of restriction of gathering and mass entry in the city of mecca.
religious tourism before and during covid19 pandemic
a study by verma and sarangi 2019 indicates that an estimated 600 million tourists visited europe and asia for religious tourism before the pandemic.
after the development of the pandemic, the researchers suggest that religious tourists were highly restricted, with the host nation obtaining only a fraction of the expected visitors alshaker et al ., 2020.
the study does not analyze the performance of religious tourism in saudi arabia during the covid19 pandemic.
different researches have shown several ways in which covid 19 has affected tourism.
the research aims at seeking data from the tourism sector in mecca to understand the impact of the pandemic on the industry.
the target population for this study includes the professionals dealing with tourism in saudi arabia, islamic pilgrims across the globe, and local traders in mecca.
the questionnaire will also target the people living near mecca and find out how the covid19 pandemic affected their earnings emanating from religious pilgrims visiting mecca.
in addition, a purposive sampling technique will be used when determining the respondents within the ministry of tourism who will be providing critical data on how the pandemic has impacted religious tourism in the nation.
however, the research findings will be essential in determining how the covid19 pandemic has affected local businesses, the economy, and the islamic pilgrimage.
digital response during the covid19 pandemic in saudi arabia , journal of medical internet research , 22 9.
early estimates of the impact of the covid19 pandemic on gdp a case study of saudi arabia , applied economics , 53 12, 13171325.
challenges faced by pandemic covid 19 crises a case study in saudi arabia , challenge , 63 6, 349364.