important directions are the introduction of new paid services and the expansion of the volume of services development in this area can be provided by the purchase of an imaging center.
thus, investing in the purchase of an imaging center is a farsighted move in the strategy for further financial development.
below is a comparison of the key financial indicators of the imaging center, obtained during the analysis of financial operations, for 2020 with similar industry averages for 2020.
the indicators of 100 organizations with a revenue of  1,500,000 engaged in the type of activity visualization of medical images are taken as the average industry indicators.
this imaging center has a high net profit margin, this indicator is higher than at least 75 of similar organizations.
in this case, it consists of the availability of financial reserves that allow the imaging center to carry out and maintain its activities.
the purpose of this analysis is to assess the financial independence of the imaging center, and the adequacy of the available capital.
the value of the indicator  0.9  fell within the range of the norm, thus, the degree to which the imaging center is dependent on creditors funds is low financial viability selfcheck, 2020.
the values of the coefficients were compared with the basic ones, and the future financial viability of the imaging center was confirmed.
the use of the income object is more profitable since the expenses of the imaging center account for less than 60 of income.
to finance the purchase of the imaging center, sustainable liabilities can be used  part of the money that the clinic should spend on current needs shortly.
the offer for business development through the purchase of the imaging center is aimed at efforts to attract customers because customers are the basis of any company.
the patients satisfaction with the medical care received is also affected by the introduction of new services that will appear in the case of the acquisition of the imaging center.