to understand the debilitating impacts of chronic illness on the aged, i had the chance to interview e james, a distant aunt who has dementia.
i also received life advice on how to live during my young age to prevent dementia and other chronic illnesses.
her daughter ru took her to the family doctor, who ran some tests and diagnosed her with dementia.
however, they were assured by their family doctor that dementia is a common health condition among people aged 60 years and over, primarily among women.
she explains that her husband understood the seriousness of the matter and allowed her to come to the u.s. and take care of her mother as he lived with their kids in the u.k. they agreed that she was the best person to give her primary care as she was the firstborn daughter, though the others would also chip in whenever she went to see her family in the u.k. she says that all of them, the three kids of e, usually take the role of caregiving to their mother, whom they all love, adore, and respect.
ru cares for her mother by taking her to the doctors appointments, cleaning for her, cooking for her, ensuring she has taken her medicine at the right time, and taking her to her womens support group meetings.
they also invite the family doctor to talk to them about continuing caring for e as she ages.
her experience living in the village has made her meet many senior adults, especially those living with chronic illnesses, abandoned by their children and society.
as i interviewed e, i understood the contribution of older adults to families and society.
i got to understand that though e is still battling her chronic illness, shes become a stronghold for her family.
the immediate family of the older adult is usually the significant support in time of illness.
the interview explored in this essay changed my personal view of aging and older adults living with chronic condition and their families.
es case has shown that many families caring for older adults with chronic illnesses may not be aware of this fact.
family members experiences supporting adults with chronic illness a national survey.