while appearing to be simple stories about damsels in distress, fairy tales are full of hidden messages that impact childrens perception of reality and influence their social relationships.
this research will explore several fairy tales, written by the grimm brothers, such as cinderella, snow white, and briar rose sleeping beauty that express, especially controversial social norms and gender roles.
through classroom discussions and performances children reevaluate meanings, scrutinize stereotypes and opinions they may have formed prematurely after first reading the fairy tales.
the benefits of fostering and implementing critical thinking in young children in the context of fairy tales is especially crucial as critical thinking helps mitigate the strong influence of these fairy tales on the personalities of young children.
1. how do particular grimms fairy tales affect childrens perception of reality?
2. can we develop critical thinking in children by, for example, engaging the fairy tale context critically through reading, analyzing, reenacting role play, and discussing it with them?
4. what are the issues, thoughts, or ideas that children mention concerning their perceptions of social norms within studied fairy tales?
fairy tales are important pieces of childrens literature that have had a lasting impact on our society nanda, 2104, 1.
previous studies on fairy tales and critical thinking
fairy tales play an important role in helping children to critically reflect on stereotypical nuances and gendered content narrated in various storybooks, preparing them for the challenges in the future.
pulimeno 2020, 15 from a pedagogical perspective, the values in fairy tales help children to make judgments about culturally fitting moral norms.
erum writes that feminist movements such as the womens liberation criticized the roles attributed to women in grimms fairy tales fairy tales and therefore rewrote some of them.
as a result, teachers and parents should consider associating some aspects of fairy tales to everyday life in order to help children think more critically.
after reading and discussing fairy tales, children are first encouraged to look at the plot, analyze the characters, and to pay close attention to differences in characters perspectives and points of view.
gender stereotypes in the selected stories of grimms fairy tales an analysis .