italy scored 50 in the power distance dimension, which shows that italians accept the hierarchy and distance from power to a certain extent hofstede insights, n.d..
italy scored 76 in terms of individualism, which shows that italians prefer to care for themselves and for their families hofstede insights, n.d..
italy scored 61 in longterm orientation, which implies that the society is pragmatic hofstede insights, n.d..
first, the power distance coefficient demonstrates that the organization managers need to balance between shared decisionmaking and dictatorship depending on the situation hofstede insights, n.d..
third, high masculinity index demonstrates that organizational cultures in italy should value success more than caring for others and benefits for the society hofstede insights, n.d..
fourth, longterm orientation means that the workplace culture should not avoid valuing tradition and promote compromise hofstede insights, n.d..
finally, a low score in terms of indulgence shows that managers working with italians should set rigid rules and avoid spending too much time on personal gratification hofstede insights, n.d..
the analysis demonstrates that the us culture is different from italian culture in terms of uncertainty avoidance, longterm orientation, and indulgence.
ngos in italy
ngos in italy work in close cooperation with the government and international authorities.
therefore, even though ngos are independent of the government in italy, these organizations try to work in close contact with the government to ensure the effectiveness of interventions
ngos in italy and the covid19
even though more than 85 of ngos in italy report the private sector being the central source of financing, the government provides direct and indirect fthe relationships of the ngo sector and the government developed similarly in italy and the united states.
the first ngos in italy emerged as helping entities that helped the government to address issues associated with the social problems in the country nothias, 2016.
in the late 1900s and the early 2000s, the role of ngos in italy evolved from being the rivals of the government to become the central allies in addressing social issues in the country, which is similar to the history of ngos in the us nothias, 2016.
since the eu is highly dependent on the expertise of ngos in terms of environmental problems, the change in geopolitical situation is expected to have a tremendous effect on the priorities of ngos in italy fra, 2017.
the analysis demonstrates that several reforms are needed to improve the effectiveness of the relationships between private and public sectors and ngos in italy.