attribution theory in communication essay
the given assessment will primarily focus on the attribution theory with an emphasis put on its summative analysis, implications for communication practice, and pros and cons assessment.
the given phenomenon addresses the human tendency to attribute external factors to ones own behavior and attribute internal factors to other individuals behavior shaver 62.
a person is more or less likely to make internal attributions on the basis of three major factors consensus, distinctiveness, and consistency shaver 107.
it is also stated that populist communication that attributes blame to the national government needs to use an emotional style to be effective, whereas populist communication influences blame perceptions toward the eu by mentioning that the eu is responsible for causing the problems of the heartland hameleers et al.
it should be noted that a multitude of factors also influence the attribution process, such as national identity since a patriotic person will most likely blame the eu even under low consensus factors.
in other words, communication professionals can use the attribution framework to address or attribute the cause by communicating in accordance with the tendencies of individual dispositions or external attributions.
in this case, professional communication needs to communicate dispositional attribution towards the company, not external forces, which can be done by adhering to low consensus, distinctiveness, and consistency.
the attribution theory is of greatest importance during crisis management when communication professionals need to defend the organization or minimize the effect of public distrust and blame.
it is important to note that many behaviors and actions can be the result of a multitude of factors, some of which are attributable to personality and others to situations.
since the attribution theory focuses on the cause of behavior, such as external or internal, it can be blind to nonevident biases, which is why communication professionals should be aware of not promoting or increasing the degree of biases by not being able to identify their nature.
in conclusion, the attribution theory is a highly comprehensive framework that aims to understand the cause of behavior through the attribution dynamics and patterns.