numerous watersheds near birmingham and frequent precipitation in spring and summer are the factors that increase the risk of flash floods, and statistics over the past few decades confirm this.
in addition, the authors note that birmingham is a city with a highly developed infrastructure and a high population density, which, in turn, contributes to flooding by reducing the water infiltration rate and removing vegetation that increases surface runoff from rainfall hossain  meng, 2020, p.
hossain and meng 2020 argue that, since 1977, flash floods have occurred in birmingham over thirty times.
thus, the hazard has not only a natural explanation but also an interpretation based on increased urbanization as a risk factor of frequent flash floods in the considered area.
therefore, the participation of responsible authorities and the creation of the necessary resource base to eliminate risks for all citizens without exception is a prerequisite for addressing the problem of flash floods in the city.
providing the necessary mitigation and planning measures is a prerequisite for targeted work to protect the city from flash floods.
these statistics justify the need to create an adequate flood mitigation program in birmingham, with an emphasis on both the population and the infrastructure, to prevent severe threats to the citys budget and residents property.
along with ensuring technical safety and protecting infrastructure, individual mitigation is an important aspect of reducing flood risks in birmingham.
ensuring community preparedness for flash floods in birmingham is a significant aspect of enabling a set of rapid response and threat prevention measures.
the value of risk communication, in turn, lies in the ability to respond to the danger of floods timely to implement all safety measures in accordance with the safety plan and prevent casualties among the population and colossal damage to the citys infrastructure.
based on their findings, these boards transmit the necessary data to the authorities, who, in turn, disseminate the information about the risks of flash floods among the population through media resources, for instance, radio, television, or internet alerts.
the effectiveness of a risk communication mechanism depends largely on peoples acceptance and understanding of the measures needed to respond to a flash flood.
these measures are prerequisites for successful risk communication in case of a flash floods threat.
for instance, according to hossain and meng 2020, who analyze the case of birmingham, lowincome families are most challenged by the lack of savings to cope with the aftermath of flash floods.
the city of birmingham, alabama, is vulnerable to flash floods due to the regions climates, including a large number of watersheds nearby and frequent and heavy precipitation.
mitigation measures, risk communication strategies, and response and recovery steps are the components of a comprehensive program to protect and assist the city in case of a disaster.