qatar, being a favorable region for the development of small and mediumsized businesses, provides local smes with sufficient conditions to advance domestically and internationally.
one of such businesses that have gained popularity and developed into an international program is iaid, an institute that promotes creative training services for children and adolescents in music, dance, and arts.
despite the fact that iaid is a qatari company, it is actively promoted in the international market and seeks to expand its range of influence by involving different countries in its network.
these results of active market work prove iaids interest in an internationalization strategy and its strong prospects for working in the global market.
however, according to the official figures, in 2018, iaid took the 7th position in the list of the most successful qatari smes, beating many businesses from the list of more than 800 companies iaid is ranked as the 7th top sme in qatar, 2021.
the case of iaid, the wellknown and successful qatari sme involved in the creative education of talented youth, confirms that an effective internationalization strategy can gain recognition and expand its sphere of influence.
developing a tailormade internationalization strategy for iaid is an essential task in light of the specifics of its business.
thus, iaid needs a personalized approach to internationalization due to the difference between its business and traditional entrepreneurial models promoted by global corporations.
another reason to enter the international market and realize business opportunities productively is the enterprises ongoing interaction with numerous countries in the asian region.
the researcher highlights the countrys high private equity, which allows local smes to count on free and active work in a dynamic and competitive market with the potential to enter the international arena balawi, 2021.
therefore, from an economic perspective, iaid should develop and promote an individual internationalization strategy because the current conditions favor it.
although iaid has a tailormade business niche and offers unique services to its target audience, developing an internationalization strategy can be challenging.
consequently, iaid may face not only cultural but also legislative challenges in developing an internationalization strategy, which, in turn, can impede business growth.
according to ali and ahamat 2018, for many qatari businesses, globalization provides more development opportunities than threats due to stable resource bases, a good reputation in the local and neighboring markets, and a wide range of partnerships.
thus, while taking into account the specifics of the business in question, an individual program should be drawn up to ensure the effective internationalization of iaids business and help the sme overcome the complexities of interethnic work.
since, based on the above analysis, the western market has been identified as a potential way to expand iaids business, appropriate steps should be taken to cover the conventions of entrepreneurial activities in countries of this direction.
according to the oxford business group 2016, media platforms are the promising tools of the marketing industry since most developed countries use digital resources as the main instruments for analyzing the preferences of the target audience.
therefore, combining the principles of working with target audiences by following a crosscultural context is a must for iaid, and alali mubarak et al.
iaid is a qatari sme providing creative education services to talented youth, and in the domestic market, the business has been successful.