the local conflict in ukraine between the current democratic government and eastern ukrainian separatists, supported by the russian federation, has continued for more than seven years, since april 2014.
in february 2022, it turned into a disastrous fullscale war between ukraine and the invading forces of the russian federation the war is continuing now.
along with the russian armed forces, there are forces of selfproclaimed states of donetsk and luhansk peoples republics, which are considered temporarily occupied territories by ukraine and other countries except for the russian federation.
before the invasion, russia recognized the sovereignty of donetsk and luhansk peoples republics, selfproclaimed states in eastern ukraine, not recognized by ukraine and any other un country in the world except russia mackinnon et al., 2022.
in that way, the conflict has brought problems to the whole world, but the most disastrous it is for both participating countries the russian federation and ukraine.
thus, feeling a lack of security, the russian government decided to invade ukraine to change its government by force and make it a prorussian country.
there are two main forces in the ongoing war, which are directly fighting ukraine and russia, with both donetsk and luhansk peoples republics on the russian side.
tensions between nato and the russian federation are one of the main causes of the conflict russia considers nato extension and the pronatoproeu course of ukraine a threat to its security chekov et al., 2019.
now, nato and the eu supply ukraine with food and weapon to help it resist the russian federations invasion thus, the conflict will probably not be resolved in a short time.
meanwhile, the war results are devastating more than millions of refugees fled from ukraine in the first week of a russian invasion.
both primary sides of the conflict, the russian federation and ukraine, may be considered as its victims, as their economies are falling, the populations life qualities are worsening, and human rights are violated.
global research community condemns russian invasion of ukraine.