it was found that ndms plays a significant role in the emergency management of the united states and may require more funding.
the national disaster medical system ndms focuses primarily on the first aspect as it provides the victims of the abovementioned emergencies with the required help.
during its development, the ndms has undergone significant changes, which forged it into a system that is designed to provide medical support in case of any disasters.
timely evacuation regardless of the possibility to predict the disaster is the key to minimizing victim numbers and providing sufficient medical help.
definitive medical care is one of the most important components of the ndms, as providing sufficient and timely medical help is its key objective.
the third component is closely linked with the second, as it is only possible to provide the necessary medical care in the areas unaffected by the disaster.
dmats are responsible for the provision of medical care and support in case of any emergencies related to manmade or natural disasters.
covid19 has shown that ndms is not provided with sufficient funding and hence is not able to introduce comprehensive medical care in case of a global emergency.
as already mentioned, ndms has a large number of functions and utilizes a wide variety of teams and agencies in order to address distinct emergencies.
a significant number of teams, which implement distinct functions, allows ndms to provide sufficient medical support on different levels.
according to some sources, the ndms supports state, local, and tribal authorities to handle the consequences of manmade or natural disasters mihalek, 2016.
conclusively, ndms provides a comprehensive emergency management framework with high flexibility, which allows it to provide highquality support on both state and local levels.
the national disaster medical system plays a key role in the emergency management of the united states.
ndms provides multilevel medical care regardless of location and emergency characteristics.