4. biofuel energy
this proposal aims at addressing energy as an environmental sustainability issue in the ignabi community.
furthermore, research shows that sources of renewable energy produce about 90 to 99 less global warming emissions compared to coal mohsin et al., 2020.
some of the environmental issues directly associated with energy consumption and production include solid waste disposal, thermal pollution, water pollution, climate change, and air pollution shah et al., 2019.
the main source of energy being used by the ignabi community is oil and coal.
the framework refers to the un sustainable development goals and national and local policy and aims to ensure the ignabi community has consistent, uptodate, and relevant practices of utilizing sustainable energy.
the framework applies to every community member contributing to the process of adopting sustainable energy sources.
any additional framework exemption will be accounted for on an exceptional basis by the ignabi communitys energy ministry additionally, the framework includes a policy development guide and lifecycle.
biofuel energy
in the field of inexhaustible energy, there exist firstgeneration biofuel machineries, which can be utilized to manufacture biomethane that can slowly be improved to fuel used in vehicles biodiesel.
figure 3 above shows some of the materials utilized to produce biofuels.
additionally, the production of biofuels is connected to the product market as a result, the conversion cost of the raw material to the final commodity must be lower to ensure that companies obtain profit.
secondgeneration biofuels are beneficial because they make fuel manufacturing more sustainable since plants utilized are nonedible and, therefore, this eliminates the competition in food production nguyen et al., 2017.
additionally, secondgeneration biofuel production aims at producing a commodity for which its use results in a negative or a neutral net carbon.
secondly, it would make biofuels more affordable to the community, thereby encouraging them to use environmentally friendly vehicles.
the generally intended benefit of this proposal is to ensure that the ignabi community uses a more sustainable method of utilizing energy.