cvc capital partners and ista benefits of the longterm investment case study
this paper is based on case study ista digging deep into cvcs longterm investment.
this discussion critically evaluates the benefits of the longterm investment to cvc capital partners cvc and ista based on the case study.
the longterm investment seems to have allowed cvc and ista to develop structured negotiations to benefit the companies.
for instance, the case notes that in 2004, the corporation experienced further strategic readjustments reverted to its original name of ista, and various responsibilities were transferred to the direct holding company for efficiency schaab  frre, 2019.
in the case study, cvc and ista seem to have benefited from the longterm investments initiatives through the informed organizational structure and company procedures schaab  frre, 2019.
the case highlights that while cvc and canada pension plan invested over 98 percent of their capital in preferential share classes, managers could devote approximately 92 percent of their capital to preferred investment options, compared to 40.2 percent in the prior transaction schaab  frre, 2019.
the case study demonstrates how cvcs maintained constant revenue and ebitda growth, increased employment, and created a corporate governance structure throughout the investment period.
in the case study, exhibit 8 illustrates that the organization hired over 1,700 more employees between the beginning and the conclusion of the investment periods schaab  frre, 2019.
for instance, the case study notes that in 2003, the company operated in 23 markets, but in 2017, it operated in 24 markets schaab  frre, 2019.
the case study illustrates several benefits of the longterm investment to cvc and ista, including offers opportunities for structured negotiations, fostering functional business relationships, and lowcost trading fees.
the case also demonstrates dynamics in cvcs revenues and ebitda during the investment phase that depends on both the internal and external business environments.
case study ista digging deep into cvcs longterm investment.