creating premises for a unique customer experience, particularly, the opportunity to tailor the model of an interior design specifically to the tastes and requirements of every single buyer, ar offers a plethora of options for creating a nuanced and intricate model that reflects the specifics of the target setting while also simplifying it to the required extent.
allowing the customer to track down the changes to be made to the interior, as well as to be planted into the newly redesigned setting, ar will provide a customer with an understanding of a designers interpretation of the key idea.
moreover, the ar tool will help a customer communicate the key feedback and introduce suggestions concerning future change, therefore, contributing to building the setting that will reflect the buyers specific needs and demands for the interior design.
finally, when talking about the opportunities that ar has introduced into interior design, one must discuss the opportunity for making the available design options for customers easy to understand and select.
incorporating tools other than ar into the interior design for communicating with customers and allowing them to make a specific design choice, experts would often face the issue of clients selecting solutions that were incompatible with the existing layout and the relevant factors determining the partial characteristics and other specifics of a certain place sandu and scarlat 8.
although the simplified design selection opportunities do not negate the need to consult experts and negotiate the general design idea with them, ar contributes to greater involvement of customers into the process of interior design jessen et al.
thus, the use of a hypothetical interior design that ar provides assists in introducing modifications to the design choices on site, which leads to more effective implementation of the project and t a greater opportunity to tailor the interior design to the specific needs and requirements of the customer.
eventually, the sense of participation in the process of interior design, which ar provides, increases the level of customer satisfaction with the project outcomes.
indeed, studies prove that the extent of customer participation in a project and the range of opportunities for selecting interior design options with a clear understanding of how these choices will affect the general outcome led to a significant rise in overall satisfaction rates carlson et al.
rather, the integration of ar into the framework of interior design management and its further use as the means of keeping customers invested in the project should be seen as an opportunity for the target audience to gain a proper understanding of specific design choices and, therefore, appreciate the elegant solutions to the issues that the interior design team has been facing throughout the project.
the opportunities for enhancing customer experience that the current ar options provide coupled with increased precision of ar modeling create the grounds for making sar a vital tool for interior design creation and the management of the process.