specifically, a periprosthetic joint infection pji is one of the most devastating complications resulting from total knee arthroplasty tka buchalter et al., 2021.
the project suggested that combining patient education and preoperative optimization could help decrease the risks of adverse health outcomes.
furthermore, patients risk factors were recognized, and strategies to reduce infection instances were discovered.
infection prevention, in particular, is essential for a patients full recovery, with ssi control and surveillance being the main ways and reducing ssi rates by 40 finkelstein et al., 2017.
the project was created to reduce tkarelated infections through patient education, counseling, and followup in an outpatient context.
the project was expected to provide practical and theoretical knowledge about reducing infections developing after tka.
furthermore, the project aimed to provide guidance on preoperative screening for risks of infections and recommend interventions to reduce their occurrence efficiently and costeffectively.
this projects overarching goal was to identify pji risk factors during the surgical process and take steps to ensure infectionpreventing policies and procedures are followed.
the subsequent data collection entailed reviewing the facility policy regarding infection control and surgery procedures and interviewing the team members.
in addition, an increased level of patient education was deemed crucial due to the need to optimize presurgery care as the risk factors for infection development can be distinguished.
surgical evidencebased practice and clinical research were deemed essential for assessing technical innovations, the efficacy of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and preventive interventions to provide better patient care ali et al., 2021.
a substantial portion of the project was spent observing surgeries, collecting patient data, and interviewing staff.
reducing the risk of infection after total joint arthroplasty preoperative optimization .