characterized by an extraordinary thoughtfulness, clear conception, and the coherence of lyrics and sounds, dark side of the moon still has a massive impact on human society, reflecting peoples attitude to life, death, madness, money, violence, choice, and social norms.
from a personal perspective, dark side of the moon is about life and its shortness, the importance of living and being human, finding the purpose in life, factors that may impact its fulfillment, and death.
at the same time, the album may be regarded as a warning to people about challenges in life that may affect its fragility and lead to insanity and destruction.
in other words, breathe, speak to me, time, the great gig in the sky, and on the run are tracks that may be grouped according to their focus on peoples perceptions and multiple aspects of life including its futility and shortness, fear of death, the boredom of routine, parenthood, luck, and the freedom of choice.
in turn, other tracks, such as us and them, money, any colour you like, eclipse, and brain damage address ideas and concepts that cause destruction, madness, and uncertainty or despair related to life reflected in the albums other tracks.
thus, dark side of the moon helps listeners realize that the pursuit of material things, social approval, and public acceptance lead to dissatisfaction with life and recognition of its futility.
thus, concepts reflected in dark side of the moon helped young people to understand themselves better and perceive the ways in which their lives could be fulfilled.
at the same time, listening to the album may be highly beneficial for individuals today, especially millennials who more than any other generation, are searching for purpose and purposeful work grant 1.
the albums message resonates with individuals emotional state  for example, the great gig in the sky reflects peoples attitude to death, either acceptance of fear, us and them is about conflicts that prevail in the modern world due to restrictions, discrimination, and inequities, while on the run express stress, anxiety, fear, and the senseless of life.
all in all, pink floyds album emphasizes the inconstancy of life.
the whole album may be perceived as a journey for people who want to understand the importance of being a human, being alive, and life in general, uncover it, and find their purpose.
in general, breathe represents the ideas of the shortness of life and its futility at the same time when people focus on the endless achievement of nonexisting ideals, competition, and toil.
in addition, this song may be regarded as a persons attitude to time during his life.
in general, time is a song about the fragility and shortness of life, every moment of which should be valued.
the next song, money, opens the series of tracks that present various things that may destroy life and lead to madness.
it reflects both the insanity of a society obsessed with money, conflicts, competition, and success and the insanity of a person who ignores life and merges into his own reflections and concerns.
throughout dark side of the moon, all songs are connected with each other, not only lyrically emphasizing the themes of life fragility, alienation, and insanity.
as a concept album, dark side of the moon reflects the fragility of life and how people are pressured by despair, mental illnesses, social norms, coming of age, conflicts, and weariness from routine.