importantly, in the emergencies like covid19, when the lives of millions of people are at stake, it is essential to ensure that the communication strategies selected by the authorities allow for depicting accurate and reliable healthcare information in the media mheidly and fares, 2020.
in this paper, the communication strategies of the authorities in qatar and italy will be compared and evaluated to identify the appeal of the public relations response to covid19 to the general public.
overall, qatars communication strategy was more enhanced and timely in comparison to italys, which allowed for a more effective response and handling of the crisis on the state level.
qatars public relations response to covid19
in the early stages of the coronavirus disease spread, qatars authorities utilized the world health organizations who guidelines to integrate it into the public relations response.
an important aspect of effective media response to public health crises is the ability of the authorities to communicate the priorities in an ethical and clear manner to the citizens.
indeed, multilingual message distribution across several media channels was an effective element of the communication strategy in qatar since it allowed for the successful reaching of a multitude of audiences ahmad and hillman, 2021.
its aim is to attain optimum public health through the implementation of sound and empirically tested and proven, best practices in healthcare a report on qatars national response to covid19, no date, p.
when compared with qatars strategies, italys communication of the pivotal information necessary to guide the public and alter their behavior to reduce the disease spread and its fatality rates was less effective.
when summarising the evaluation and analysis of the communication strategies in qatar and italy within the framework of the covid 19 national pandemic response, one should identify italys diminished effectiveness compared to qatar.
2020 leveraging media and health communication strategies to overcome the covid19 infodemic, journal of public health policy, 41, pp.