air pollution is one of the main problems of the modern world, and consolidated cooperation of world leaders is required in order to develop strategies to cope with atmospheric changes.
it is required to provide an overview of those programs and schemes of actions that were used in the local, federal and global policies of the countries of the world to combat air pollution.
it is in the countries of southeast asia or the pacific ocean that the largest number of deaths or reduced life expectancy from air pollution is concentrated lelieveld et al., p.
tragically, these countries with no economic influence are the least able to withstand air pollution, the most suffering from it.
first of all, the problem of air pollution is dealt with by european countries that have sufficient financial resources in order to organize a fullfledged system to counter this problem.
with all the positive impact that the initiatives of european countries have, one cannot but take into account the fact that strategies to combat air pollution yet cannot be used globally.
in particular, attention should be paid to the problem of air pollution in the context of critical climatic changes that can lead to global environmental disasters.
it should also be noted that despite the truly global concern about pollution, the mission of the health organization simply does not study the problems in certain countries.
air pollution in africa, for example, is established in only a few countries on the continent, while in most of it the ecological situation remains completely unknown.
additionally, it would be necessary to highlight the problem of a global pandemic in the context of air pollution.
ignoring the consumption and recycling of energy in the first world countries, environmentalists allow much more damage to the environment and air pollution, with critical natural consequences.
based on observations of different strategies to overcome the crisis of air pollution, it seems that only the coordinated work of countries of different levels of development is able to offer clues to the problem.