historically, slave trade thrived as a result of prominent economic impact across distinct regions.
notably, racism evolved from slave trade to distinct sociocultural foundational practices negatively influencing the peaceful coexistence among people within a territorial setting.
to determine the effect of slavery and racism to modern society.
it is after 1661 that the american government implemented policies that encompassed prominent influence upon legalization of slave trade.
despite the intention to promote equity, slavery persisted to the level that it became legalized and african americans faced dynamic hurdles.
as the first african americans to set off the deceitful agreement, the individuals faced prominent challenges due to betrayal from the americans and traders.
therefore, slave trade emerged as an essential framework towards empowering the societies in the european and american continents.
slave trade is an entity that faced significant controversies from different parties cause of the trickledown effect of the accrued benefits.
the two mainframes contribute to the significant impact to europeans, africans, the caribbean, and americans.
as direct witnesses to various machinations of slave trafficking, african americans undoubtedly understood that they were the most effective agents in rallying to end the human victimization and cultural decimation that were endemic to the business 6 .
primarily, the indigestible trauma among african americans regards to the tribulations as slaves and the extension to the ideological racial profiling.
effect of slavery and racism to modern american society
racism is a phenomenon that evolved from slave trade due to the prominent essence of determining social class.
according to the researcher, americans uphold different opinions concerning racism and slavery.
racism and slavery exist in different forms across the american society hence the importance of addressing the concept as a social issue.
terrorism is a problem that highly affects global human society mainly due to adverse effects such as fear.
according to researchers, the bombing of the world trade centre was an intimidation technique targeting the americans due to the violence against islamic community 15 .
primarily, the evolution of racism and slavery spans the discrimination on religious affiliations due to the prominent stereotyping.
in conclusion, racism and slavery significantly affect the quality of living among americans cause of the proficiency in the marginalization of ethnicities.
the discrimination evolved towards a significant social issue among the americans leading the hindrance of sociocultural and economic growth and development.
brookings, web.
brookings, web.
brookings, web.