inflammations role in asthma development essay
asthma is a chronic lung disease that causes the passages to become inflamed and congested, making breathing difficult.
asthma is characterized by bronchial tube inflammation and excess sticky fluids within the tubes dharmage et al., 2019.
asthma is a chronic airway illness that affects over 300 million individuals worldwide boonpiyathad et al., 2019.
asthma pathophysiology is highly heterogeneous, with several phenotypes describing observable traits and endotypes explaining molecular causes yang et al., 2017.
obesity is a serious public health issue that is both potential risk and a condition modification for asthma in both adults and children peters et al., 2018.
obese people are more likely to develop asthma, and obese patients are prone to have more complaints, more frequent and more severe acute episodes, a worse response to various asthma treatments, and a lower quality of life tashiro  shore, 2019.
asthma is characterized by a complex interaction of inflammatory disease and remolding, resulting in airway hyperresponsiveness ahrvariable and severe airway shrinking king et al., 2018.
severe asthma is frequently accompanied by some measure of chronic airflow restriction wang et al., 2020.
airway inflammation in breathing problems is very complicated, encompassing both adaptation and natural processes, and a better knowledge of inflammation has allowed physicians to try and understand the clinical illness and treat severe asthma patients khalaf et al., 2019.
in severe asthma, the extent of structural alterations to the small airways is greater and more nonoverlapping scattered bush et al., 2017.
in both children and adults, consuming fruits and vegetables has been associated with a decreased risk of developing asthma.
obesity is a critical public health concern that may both be a risk factor for and a cause of asthma in both adults and children.
immunologic mechanisms in asthma .
severe asthma in children .
j., burla, d., ding, m., jansen, k.,  akdis, c.
obesity and asthma .
neutrophilic inflammation in asthma and association with disease severity .
obesity and severe asthma .
paucigranulocytic asthma uncoupling of airway obstruction from inflammation .