Coaching and Mentoring for Organizational Performance Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Full Bibliographic Information of Source
 2. Author’s Stated Research Question and Thesis
 3. Major Argument and Refutations
 4. Implications of Research
 5. Critique of Author’s Work
 6. Research Questions Raised
 7. Reference

Full Bibliographic Information of Source

Harvard Business School. (2004). Coaching and mentoring . Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business School Press. 1-155.

Author’s Stated Research Question and Thesis

The main thesis of the book is that timely training and coaching have a powerful effect on improving the performance in an institution. Effective mentoring and guidance are some of the powerful ways of promoting the quality service delivery in an organization. The main questions of the author include: What are the effects of coaching and mentoring in performance of a firm? What is the role of managers in facilitating the program?

Major Argument and Refutations

The author argues that timely training has a powerful effect of enhancing the company’s performance. It is essential for the managers to “monitor your employees’ behaviors and understand their behaviors and shortcomings” (Harvard Business School, 2004, p. 45). During the program, managers take the opportunity to master unique mentoring approaches, improve skills as well as locate the challenges that members undergo during their operations.

Implications of Research

The main implication of the research is the possible power of improving performance in the firm. The results of the study can provide comprehensive advice on the relevant approach of delivering services in the firm while, at the same time, guiding personal coaching to managers who intend to improve their company. Therefore, it is appropriate to both the new and existing managers who are seeking to broaden their knowledge of business operations.

Critique of Author’s Work

The author only read the publication of secondary sources from Harvard Business Essential Series on the effects of coaching and mentoring without taking into consideration the practical aspect. The primary use of secondary sources failed to validate the opinion of “monitor if your employees are following the mentoring plans you have created” (Harvard Business School, 2004, p. 46). The research failed to compare the effect of such actions in different institutions.

Research Questions Raised

The book has managed to create several research questions regarding coaching and training of employees. These questions include: How best can the research be made to achieve results? What changes are needed to be made in the research? The provision of the right answers to these questions will help to promote the validity and reliability in the use of the above approaches to improve the business.

Reference

Harvard Business School. (2004). Coaching and mentoring . Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business School Press. 1-155.