Analyzing the iPhone as an Artifact Research Paper

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Cultural Uses
 3. Analysis
 4. Oral Presentation
 5. References

Introduction

Apple supporters and technology trend analysts awaited the much-anticipated public unveiling of the Apple iPhone with bated breath. Since Apple’s chairman, Steve Jobs, unveiled the mobile product at the MacWorld convention, there has been much noise about the gadget on the Internet and in the news. The iPhone is an Apple device that integrates a laptop, iPod, digital camera, and cell telephone into a single device with a touchscreen interface (Godwin-Jones, 2017). A person can use this device using the touch screen so that the user can interact with the information on the net. The primary purpose of this device is access to the Internet and interaction with other users.

Since the iPhone is a compact device, it is possible to carry it with you. Every morning I check my device for news. Then, with the help of special applications, I check the message from my friends and also revise other essential aspects like the weather. The iPhone records which applications I use, what news I receive, and how I react to that as well. Thus, the device builds an algorithm for displaying advertisements and information that will fit the user’s preferences. Since all device usage data is then sent to Apple’s servers, a database is created that generates user behavior profiles. Someone watches more videos, and someone reads more. It changes the perception of the information and, accordingly, the display itself. All collected information about the usage of the artifact is collected in order to improve the user experience in future updates. The user agreement is permitted by Apple in order to understand user needs better.

Cultural Uses

The phone, as technological equipment, demonstrates intentionality and a program that prescribes usage, amplifying or lowering specific aspects of people’s thought and cognition. High levels of demand for iPhones may be explained by connecting narratives centered on Apple Inc., the neoliberal emphasis on personalization, and the amount that exceeds and cultural power of a so-called creative community (Martin, 2019). Most often, the iPhone is said to be an invention that changed the world. After Apple presented the iPhone, corporations from all over the world began to copy this form factor. To this day, most of the innovations that can be found on the market, if not presented on the iPhone, have been brought to perfection (Muntean et al., 2017). If we take recent years as an example, Apple has recently introduced an iPhone without frames, with a notch that stores the camera and other sensors. After the presentation, all phone manufacturers began to make the same phones with gaps, but no one managed to repeat the iPhone form factor.

At the time of the release of the first iPhone, it was a challenge for thinking and action for the whole world. However, now this challenge has been overcome as the iPhone has entered the world culture as a common thing that everyone knows about. Thus, we can conclude that the world has approved this challenge and eventually accepted it as a given. At first, for everyone, the iPhone was an absolute novelty as a rethinking of the cell phone as such.

Analysis

Each new iPhone causes excitement on the Internet and leads to the fact that every person who is somehow following the news will know about the latest version of the iPhone without decelerating. Apple presents its devices in a way that evokes emotions in people around the world. The algorithm works so that initially, it is necessary to arouse sentiments in users so that they want to purchase it. Further, the brand works for itself: Apple has achieved high-quality devices over the years of design, and now the main advantage is the human emotions during the exploitation.

The iPhone as a modern cultural artifact says a lot about today’s values. Although people do not recognize that today’s material values prevail, this is how it happens. iPhone is a cultural symbol of modernity and relevance; every teenager wants to have an iPhone because it shows the knowledge of trends. Even those people who do not want to buy Apple gadgets for themselves admit that the contribution of this company and the iPhone in particular to the culture is colossal.

People who buy modern devices sacrifice their privacy as all data becomes available to the manufacturer’s company. It often happens that data is lost due to hacker attacks, which entails getting all the data to the public. However, it also leads to its advantages, such as relevance and power. iPhone is a device that is always relevant; Apple has ensured that when buying a two-year-old appliance, the user does not experience severe problems with the device’s significance. Due to the fact that this device appeared on the market more than ten years ago, today, it is difficult to say about changes in cultural norms. However, people can say for sure about a particular cultural shift at that time towards information technology.

Oral Presentation

Apple fans and technological trend-watchers waited with great expectancy for the much-anticipated official introduction of the Apple iPhone. A person can engage with the information available on the Internet by utilizing this device’s touchscreen interface. The gadget creates an algorithm to show advertisements and information based on the user’s choices. All information gathered regarding the use of the artifact is saved in order to create an enabling environment in future releases. Apple allows the license agreement in order to fully understand user demands.

The phone, as a piece of technological equipment, demonstrates intentionality and a script that prescribes usage, amplifying or lowering specific aspects of people’s perception and action. The iPhone is frequently referred to as a world-changing invention. Following the introduction of the iPhone by Apple, firms from all over began to imitate this form factor, and to this day, most of the advances that can be found on the marketplace, if not displayed on the iPhone, have been perfected. When the first iPhone was released, it was a thought and action competition for the entire world. Nevertheless, this problem has already been addressed because the iPhone has become ingrained in global society as a commonplace item that everyone is aware of.

Apple offers its products in a way that evokes strong emotions in individuals all around the world. The algorithm is designed in such a way that it is first essential to produce feelings in people in order for them to desire to purchase it. As a modern historical phenomenon, the iPhone tells a lot about today’s values. Although most people are unaware that today’s material values predominate, this is how it works. The iPhone is a cultural icon of modernity and relevance; every youngster desires an iPhone since it demonstrates an understanding of current events. People who purchase contemporary products give up their privacy because all data is made available to the manufacturer’s firm.

References

Godwin-Jones, R. (2017). Smartphones and language learning. Language Learning & Technology , 21 (2), 3-17.

Martin, J. (2019). Artifact . Rochester Institute of Technology.

Muntean, R., Antle, A. N., Matkin, B., Hennessy, K., Rowley, S., & Wilson, J. (2017). Designing cultural values into interaction. In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , 6062-6074.