Discussion: Finding the Good in the Bad Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Diseases
 3. Warring States Period
 4. Crucifixion of Jesus
 5. Conclusion

Introduction

Many natural and artificial catastrophic events throughout human history have greatly impacted whole societies and countries. While a catastrophe’s definition might vary slightly, natural disasters, wars, famines, diseases, and other occurrences that lead to significant economic damage and human losses can be considered catastrophic events. Nevertheless, even terrible experiences might have positive implications and outcomes, and it is vital to critically analyze them from different perspectives.

Diseases

Instead of selecting one particular disease that affected whole nations, such as the Black Death, discussing diseases, in general, might reveal their significance to the development of society. As mentioned in the script of Section 1, illnesses have become a relevant problem to people as soon as they start living together in larger numbers. Evidently, from 7,000,000 to 3,500 BCE, people had a relatively poor understanding of sanitation and how diseases spread, which led to many sicknesses during the transition to settlements. Also, people of Paleolithic groups started domesticating animals during this period, and many hunters and farmers died from transmissible diseases.

Even today, thousands of people die from rabies and other sicknesses from animal bites. Needless to say, various epidemics, including the Black Death, Spanish flu, and COVID-19, have terrorized people for the whole of human history. However, it is essential to identify the good consequences of catastrophic events. While diseases killed many people, they also paved the way for medicine. As people learned more about sicknesses, they also improved sanitary conditions. Therefore, while diseases are still a highly relevant problem, humanity adjusts and develops.

Warring States Period

The second catastrophic event concerns the extensive period of civil wars in China, which led to millions of deaths and almost constant famine. Many states tried to increase their scope of influence and conquer the nearby territories. However, as mentioned in Section 4, the Warring States Period also gave rise to new political and philosophical traditions that drastically changed ancient China. The three primary branches, Confucianism, Daoism, and Legalism, were developed as different responses to constant warfare and death. Even today, people from all over the world study the literary works of Confucius, Laozi, and other philosophers born during this terrible period of civil wars. As a result, Qin Shi Huangdi ended the Warring States period by unifying the country and bringing peace to his people, though, unfortunately, only for a short time.

Crucifixion of Jesus

Section 6 examines how the crucifixion of a living human led to the birth of the largest religions in the history of the world. Regardless of sacred beliefs, most historians agree that Jesus was an actual human with a significant following and taught people about love and acceptance. His inhumane death led to countless confrontations between his followers and adversaries, having a massive impact on societies and giving rise to religions. While the severity of his murder might not be sufficient to be described as a catastrophic event, the crucifixion of Jesus shaped the whole of human history.

Conclusion

Catastrophic events are terrible occurrences that lead to thousands of deaths, but they also might be the reason for positive societal change. The current essay demonstrated the ability of people to adapt to almost anything and use their misfortunes to their advantage. Diseases lead to the development of medicine, wars to peaceful solutions, and inhumane acts of cruelty might guide to acceptance. As a result, it is essential to always try to find the good in the bad and identify the positive consequences of terrible events.