Disney Case Study: Action Plan Case Study

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Disney Business
 3. Strategic Perspective
 4. Works Cited

Introduction

Without any doubt, Disney should strive for growth and development. The company has vast potential and opportunities, and these aspects should be used and applied in a more favorable light. In this case, the enterprise should develop within the framework of improving digital content and increasing the capacity of parks (Horowitz). Indeed, COVID-19 has played a crucial role in the company’s parks in 2021. However, if one talks about current events and trends, the spread of the virus is gradually coming to naught, which means that parks will also be popular soon. Moreover, with the arrival of the pandemic, people began to watch movies and TV series online more often without leaving home. Thus, Disney does not need to apply extraordinary and drastic changes to the brand and products like Pixar. It is only necessary to focus particular attention on streaming services and the development of theme parks.

Disney Business

As a rule, Disney’s culture and policy are based on mass entertainment and recreation for children and the whole family. According to the official site, Disney entertains, inspires, and informs people around the globe ( About the Walt Disney ). It reflects the cultures of countries, innovative technologies, and creative aspects that make the company a leader in the entertainment segment on the world stage ( About the Walt Disney ). Thus, Disney is primarily a content business that creates exciting stories and memorable characters.

Strategic Perspective

The best strategy for Disney is the purposeful goals and objectives present in each division. Hence, all actions and decisions will be coordinated, effective, and prompt. Furthermore, managers should maintain a specific “golden mean” when communicating and interacting with employees, without limiting creative activity, but at the same time not allowing them to relax. Ideally, the activity results should also be sent to more senior personalities from Disney headquarters.

Works Cited

“About the Walt Disney Company.” Disney , Web.

Horowitz, Julia. “Disney needs a comeback year. Will it get it?.” CNN Sans, Web.