Effects of Aging on the Integumentary and Musculoskeletal Systems Research Paper

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Interview Summary
 3. Effects of Aging
 4. Theories of Aging
 5. Manifestations in Aging
 6. Individual Skin Components Changes
 7. Degenerative Changes
 8. Conclusion
 9. References

Introduction

Aging is a compulsory process that occurs in all human beings with the progression of time. The process is marked with significant changes in various body structures and functions that diminish the effectiveness of aged people. This essay is an analysis of an interview conducted on an aged woman to assess the changes attributed to aging. The first part analyzes the interview and the responses provided by the woman including the variations in her body functions. The second part is a summary of the information available on the changes that occur in the integumentary system with age. The final part is a conclusion that harmonizes the information in the entire essay, providing a summary.

Interview Summary

The interviewee was a sixty-six-year-old woman who confirmed that she experienced increased facial hair growth and thinning of the hair on the head. She tried out different varieties of shampoos and hair food recommended to her by friends and hairstylists. About a month after noticing the above changes, the interviewee reported experiencing pains in both knee joints. She described the pain to be sharp, aggravated by movement are relieved by rest. The knee problem prompted her to consult a physician who diagnosed her with osteoarthritis. On mentioning the hair changes to the physician, the interviewee was informed the hair changes and the osteoarthritis was due to declining estrogen levels post-menopause. The physician initiated the interviewee on hormone replacement therapy, a combination of estrogen and progesterone, and diclofenac for knee pain.

The interviewee affirmed she had made some diet modifications. She was keen on taking more foods rich in calcium and Vitamin D, such as dairy products and dark green leafy vegetables. In addition, she was exposing herself to sunlight more to promote Vitamin D synthesis. Another modification is consuming a high-fiber diet in the form of salads, fruits, and vegetables. Cognizant of lower caloric requirements at her age, she resolved to cut consumption of calorie-rich foods, foods high in cholesterol such as fries, and all forms of sugar.

She advised the younger generation to enjoy their youth as it fades away fast. Aging is an inevitable fate of human existence. She advised the young to embrace aging as it comes. In particular, she advised the young to eat a healthy diet and avoid smoking and alcohol. The interviewee further advised the young the take care of their mental health by sharing what they are feeling and going through with someone. She emphasized the need to be physically active from a young age.

Effects of Aging

The world is aging because the number of persons over 65 years of age in 2020 was estimated at 727 million. This number has been increasing over the past decades and is projected to continue rising (United Nations, 2020). Aging is inevitable owing to the mortal nature of human life. It is essential to understand the aging process and the changes that come with it. Aging refers to the progressive deterioration in physiologic functions within the human body that occur over time. It is a natural process that occurs over an individual’s life span due to cumulative cellular damage.

Theories of Aging

Several theories can explain the mechanism by which aging occurs. They include oxidative damage, defective DNA repair mechanisms, mitochondrial genome damage, telomere shortening, and mutations in genes that suppress aging. Free radicals cause oxidative damage to the cell in proportions that overwhelm the cell’s repair mechanisms, eventually causing cell death. Mutations in cell DNA accumulate over time; more errors occur when they affect enzymes involved in DNA synthesis (Gilbert, 2019). Errors in DNA repair enzymes result in accelerated aging. Mitochondrial genome damage results in reduced mitochondrial functioning and activation of programmed cell death pathways. Telomeres shorten with each cell division cycle, which eventually limits further cell division (Gilbert, 2019). The shortening of the telomeres indicates diminished division cycles for these cells hence aging.

Manifestations in Aging

The aging process manifests as senescence, deterioration in the functional capacity of organs and tissues. A decline in physiologic capacity characterizes aging, age-related diseases such as diabetes, increased vulnerability to diseases, reduced ability to adapt to stress, and eventually death. In addition to biological changes, aging is also associated with psychological, economic, and social changes such as retirement (World Health Organization, 2021). Gerontology is a field of science dedicated to studying aging, while geriatrics is a medical specialty dedicated to providing medical care for older persons (Besdine, 2019). All organ systems in the body are affected by aging. This paper will explore the changes observed in the integumentary and musculoskeletal systems.

Individual Skin Components Changes

The integumentary system comprises the skin and its associated structures that include hair, nails, sweat glands, and sebaceous glands. The purpose of hair is protection, thermoregulation, sensation, and beauty. Nails are important for grasping, protecting, and cosmetics. The skin is composed of epidermal, dermal, and hypodermal layers. The epidermis is a protective layer composed of five layers and four types of cells; keratin-producing cells, melanin-producing cells, dendritic cells, and Merkel cells. Keratinocyte cells of the epidermis produce keratin which forms a protective barrier. Melanocyte cells produce melanin that protects from ultraviolet radiation. Dendritic cells within the epidermis are a line of defense against pathogens. Merkel cells are sensory; they are receptors for a light touch.

The dermal layer is composed of loose connective tissue, collagen fibers, hair follicles, sebaceous glands, sweat glands, neurons, and blood vessels. Sweat glands produce sweat for thermoregulation. Hair follicles and blood vessels also play a crucial role in thermoregulation. Nerve endings serve as receptors for touch, heat, pain, and cold sensations (Yousef et al., 2020). Sebaceous glands produce sebum which serves as an antimicrobial and a lubricant. The hypodermal layer is mainly adipose tissue that serves as a heat insulator (Yousef et al., 2020). It prevents heat loss and ensures that one maintains the constant healthy range of body temperature.

The skin is most vulnerable to the aging process and is an obvious indicator of advancing age. The number of epidermal cells reduces with age resulting in an overall reduction of skin thickness. Less keratin is produced, leaving the skin vulnerable to trauma. Reduction in melanin-producing melanocytes results in areas of hypopigmentation and greying of hair. The junction between the epidermis and dermis flattens, leaving the skin vulnerable to shearing forces. At the dermal layer, the number of cells and blood vessels reduces with age. Reduced cellularity results in reduced connective tissue formation, less collagen, and consequently loss of elasticity. The hypodermal layer reduces as adipose tissue diminishes with age (Bonté et al., 2019). The reduction in subcutaneous tissue fat is marked on the extremities as fat is redistributed to the vital organs.

Degenerative Changes

Degenerative changes in the musculoskeletal system put elderly persons at risk of weakness, fractures, falls, and immobility. The musculoskeletal system consists of the skeletal system and muscles. Muscles are excitable tissues that contract and relax to facilitate movement. There are three types of muscles in the human body, skeletal, smooth, and cardiac muscles. Skeletal muscles are attached to bones by tendons and are involved in locomotion and support. Cardiac muscles are located in the heart, while smooth muscles are found in hollow visceral organs such as the alimentary canal. All muscles are supplied by nerves that coordinate contraction relaxation and blood vessels for blood supply. The skeletal system is composed of bone, ligaments, and cartilage. Bones articulate to form joints stabilized by ligaments, muscle, and tendons attaching around a joint. Cartilage tissue lines bone surfaces at the joint to allow free movement (Walker, 20202). The roles of this system comprise protection of vital organs, support, locomotion, muscles are sites of glycogen storage, hematopoiesis, and mineral homeostasis, e.g., calcium and phosphate.

The bulk skeletal muscles decrease with age. Loss of muscle bulk is accelerated by disuse from reduced physical activity. As a result, elderly persons are susceptible to falls and low-energy fractures. Muscle strength also diminishes with age, which greatly affects the ability to carry out daily activities and locomotion. The loss of power and bulk is attributed to cellular atrophy. Muscle activity also diminishes with age as a result of reduced neuronal activity and conduction (Amarya et al., 2018). The ratio of adipose tissue to muscle increases with age as more fat is deposited in the muscle. As basal metabolic rate slows with age, more protein is replaced with fat. The long-term effect of this is reduced muscle quality (Amarya et al., 2018). The reduced quality and quantity of muscles interferes with the ability of aged people to perform various physical functions.

Bone density reduces with aging, inclining ageing patients to fractures. The pathophysiology of age-related osteoporosis is reduced estrogen levels in women, excess parathyroid hormone secretion, and increased fat deposition in the bone marrow. Estrogen preserves bone integrity by inhibiting osteoclast cells that break down bone. Excess parathyroid hormone increases bone resorption, reducing bone density (Bhattarai et al., 2020). Joints become stiffer, and flexibility reduces with age. The stiffness is attributed to shortening and loss of ligament flexibility. The quantity of synovial fluid that lubricates joint surfaces reduces with advancing age, further impairing movement.

Osteoarthritis is a common degenerative disorder associated with age. It is characterized by pain, deformity, and loss of joint function. The cartilage at a joint’s articular surfaces degenerates with age resulting in osteoarthritis. Degeneration of articular cartilage is attributed to reduced chondrocyte function (Krishnan & Grodzinsky, 2018). The pathophysiologic changes extend to joint capsule and bone. Sweat and sebum secretion reduces with age because of the number and size of sebaceous and sweat glands. Hair changes associated with advancing age include baldness in men. In women, the absence of estrogen increases facial hair (Khurana, 2018). Women can also experience loss of pubic and axillary hair due to low levels of adrenal androgens.

Conclusion

In conclusion, aging is an inevitable reality of human existence that must be embraced. Understanding the changes age brings about to the body is crucial in formulating appropriate lifestyle adjustments. Individuals can modify their environment and lifestyle to ensure a healthy aging process. Some lifestyle modifications that can contribute to successful aging include eating a healthy balanced diet, observing a consistent exercise routine, avoiding alcohol and smoking. It is vital to make regular clinical visits to assess health status. Regular checkups facilitate early detection of diseases and formulating a plan of care. Healthy aging requires individuals to plan for their financial and social welfare in advance before age erodes physical and mental capacities. It is important to remember that aging is not a disease but a stage in the life of every human being.

References

Amarya, S., Singh, K., & Sabharwal, M. (2018). Ageing process and physiological changes. In www.intechopen.com. IntechOpen. Web.

Besdine, R. W. (2019). Overview of aging. MSD manual consumer version; MSD Manuals. Web.

Bhattarai, H. K., Shrestha, S., Rokka, K., & Shakya, R. (2020). Vitamin D, calcium, parathyroid hormone, and sex steroids in bone health and effects of aging. Journal of Osteoporosis, 2020, 1–10. Web.

Bonté, F., Girard, D., Archambault, J.-C., & Desmoulière, A. (2019). Skin Changes during ageing. Subcellular Biochemistry, 249–280. Web.

Gilbert, S. F. (2019). Aging: The biology of senescence. Nih.gov; Sinauer Associates. Web.

Khurana, I. (2018). Concise textbook of human physiology. Elsevier India.

Krishnan, Y., & Grodzinsky, A. J. (2018). Cartilage diseases. Matrix Biology, 71-72, 51–69. Web.

United Nations. (2020). World population ageing 2020 highlights | Population division . Www.un.org. Web.

Walker, J. (2020). Skeletal system 2: Structure and function of the musculoskeletal system. Nursing Times, 116(3), 52–56.

World Health Organization. (2021). Ageing and health . Who.int; World Health Organization: WHO. Web.

Yousef, H., Alhajj, M., & Sharma, S. (2020). Anatomy, skin (integument), epidermis. PubMed; StatPearls Publishing. Web.