Analysis of One Day Resort in Vietnam Essay (Critical Writing)

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Cultural Environment
 3. Political and Legal Environment
 4. Tech Environment and Competition

Introduction

First of all, it should be noted that Vietnam is a state, one of the key sources of income of which is tourism. This means that the organization will be able to enter the market, gaining a foothold in the quality implementation of business goals. In addition, the state in question is a developing one, where prices for rent or goods differ from European or American ones for the better. At the same time, a large number of tourists come to the territory of the state every year, bringing financial flows. This means that One Day Resort will be a profitable and efficient business in Vietnam. It is also worth emphasizing that there are a large number of attractions located in different locations in the country, therefore the main competitive advantage of the corporation will be the ability to stay just for one night, in order to continue the journey later.

Cultural Environment

The cultural environment of Vietnam is authentic, distinguished by food and the mentality of the local population. However, many foreigners prefer to combine new experiences with habits, so this area offers potential benefits. However, the addition of foreign elements to the interior and cuisine of One Day Resort may be of interest to the local population, who will stay overnight at the establishment. Thus, it is realistic to unite the interests of foreigners and Vietnamese, having recommended the corporation in the local market. However, it is important to take into account religious and cultural influences in such a way as not to create a potential conflict on this basis. Like any Asian country, Vietnam belongs to the philosophical type of society, so there is an institution of the face. In other words, creating a misunderstanding or conflict can completely destroy the entire corporation in such a way that it will be rejected by society without the right to rehabilitation. As a result, for the implementation of the project it is necessary to involve specialists in cultural studies.

Political and Legal Environment

The political situation in Vietnam is quite stable, despite the fact that certain sections of the population express their dissatisfaction. The main problem of the country is high poverty and COVID-19, so it is necessary to take sufficient measures to prevent these areas from spreading to business. In the first case, it is necessary to set average prices in order for the organization to be accessible to the majority. In the second, it is necessary to observe the necessary precautions regarding the virus, then the Vietnamese government will not have claims. It should be emphasized that the business niche under consideration is tourism, which is apolitical in nature and is not connected with the legal situation, therefore, with proper planning, any contradictions can be avoided.

Tech Environment and Competition

It is necessary to start with the fact that Vietnam is a developing country, therefore European and American technologies can create a noticeable advantage over competitors. For example, the introduction of robotics, fast Wi-Fi and household innovations can attract an additional audience. At the same time, as already indicated above, the corporation plans to set an average price and introduce a mixture of cultural characteristics of different countries. Together with the high technology of equipment in One Day Resort, the company’s competitiveness will be at a high level, but it must be taken into account that the niche in Vietnam is already occupied. This means that in addition to only integrating all schemes, it is necessary to ensure a high level of quality both in the services offered and in the conduct of business. The fact is that entrepreneurs in many states have already founded corporations on the territory of the state, so their weaknesses should be investigated. One of these is the lack of opportunities for a profitable stopover for one day. Therefore, the emphasis should be on this specific aspect of One Day Resort.