Creating Diverse Care Delivery Models in Nursing Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. How Social Justice Is Fundamental to the Practice of Nursing
 3. Social Justice, Diversity, and Patient- and Family-Centered Care
 4. Barriers to Providing Socially Just Care to a Diverse Population
 5. Recommendations for Providing Health Promotion Activities
 6. Conclusion
 7. References

Introduction

Social justice is a common perspective that all people should be treated with equity while accessing social, political, and economic opportunities and rights. The United Nations views social justice as the fair and compassionate distribution of resources for growth (Thrift & Sugarman, 2019).

Social justice is essential in nursing practice, especially where experts, medical equipment, or drugs are limited. The allocation and distribution of limited resources determine the fairness and success of health services and programs in a diverse society. Creating diverse care delivery models guides the formation and management of institutions that collaborate with individuals to provide empowerment and humanitarian services to communities (Smith et al., 2018). Healthcare delivery models in nursing practice are meant to help all people receive the best treatment and care in all aspects of life, especially for the neediest in society. Usually, the demonstrative and medical staff come from different backgrounds and possess a wide range of skills and experience, which is essential for all stakeholders. Social justice in nursing is an essential practice as it ensures the equitable provision of services to the neediest.

How Social Justice Is Fundamental to the Practice of Nursing

Access to quality nursing and healthcare services remains a common challenge to billions of people around the globe. As a result, there is a constant need to develop frameworks and institutions that provide equitable healthcare services to home-based care patients. The quality of health care assertive provided to patients such as the old, patients recovering from surgery or accidents depends on their ability to afford such services. Creating diverse care delivery models improves the accessibility of such services. For instance, patients who live near health facilities or medical practitioners are easily accessible to home-based care nurses. It also ensures access to critical medical infrastructural such as cancer diagnosis equipment is allocated fairly and equitably.

Creating diverse care delivery models in nursing ensures the neediest access to the best services there is. Alpert et al. (2020) note that diverse care models help health and other social institutions plan for better services without straining their limited personnel. For example, nurses might be challenged to choose between attending to an elderly sick patient at home or attending to tens of patients lined up at a health facility. The distribution of scarce medical equipment is one of the biggest challenges inhibiting the provision of medical services. In such scenarios, care delivery models ensure the resources are first provided to the neediest. Healthcare workers first attend to the neediest patients such as the elderly and patients with underlying conditions in case of a deadly pandemic like the COVID-19. Other cases like patients recovering from an accident or surgery may be attended to later. However, it does not mean that a patient should be ignored while attending to the neediest. All patients deserve the best care and treatment possible for the actual realization of just care delivery models.

Social Justice, Diversity, and Patient- and Family-Centered Care

Communities differ in culture and overall view of health services. Putot (2022) defines patient-centered care as the provision of healthcare services based on patient needs and preferences and values. According to Alpert et al. (2020), the clinical decisions in patient-based care are controlled by the patient’s values to ensure the services provided are as relevant and effective as possible. The approach demands an ideal collaboration between healthcare personnel and individual patients. The decisions made by the healthcare providers as well as the treatment outcomes are driven by patient aspirations and needs.

On the other hand, family-centered care is focused on the well-being of relatives and children. The approach is geared towards a professional partnership between the family and healthcare providers (Nnama-Okechukwu & Okoye, 2019). The family-centered approach is respectful of the traditions, cultures, expertise, and strengths that the professionals and family contribute to this bond. In other words, the role and contribution of each player are highly valued, respected, and welcome.

Different patients need different attention while seeking medical services. It is influenced by the differences in their inspirations, cultures, beliefs, values, and family backgrounds. Such differences create a chaotic situation, which calls for the application of either patient-centered or family-centered treatment approaches. The patient-centered approach is mostly applicable to conscious patients who can express themselves as much as possible (Nnama-Okechukwu and Okoye, 2019). In cases whether the patient is conclusions, for example, after a fatal road accident or severe illness, the treatment approach chosen is always in favor of the family. Social diversity creates gaps in access to health services, which could prevent the poor or otherwise disadvantaged individuals from accessing quality healthcare services. Social justice chips in to bridge the gaps between social diversity and treatment approaches. At the end of the day, social justice creates an ample environment for healthcare providers and patients from across the social divide.

Barriers to Providing Socially Just Care to a Diverse Population

Creating diverse care delivery models in healthcare is far from being achieved although numerous measures have been taken to limit existing challenges. Some of the biggest challenges inhibiting the provision of socially just healthcare to diverse populations are inadequate manpower, poverty, racism, divisive politics, cultural barriers, fear, stereotyping, and discrimination (Puckett et al., 2018). Lack of education is also a major hindrance to the creation of diverse and just care delivery models as people do not understand what is good or meant for them. Medical experiments and clinical trials target the poor, which might leave them in critical health conditions. The barriers limit healthcare providers, patients, and their families from experiencing the true fruits of diverse care delivery models and schemes.

Recommendations for Providing Health Promotion Activities

Building a socially just health sector is necessary for all nations and communities. However, with the aforementioned barriers, it is challenging to achieve the goal. As a result, the following recommendations are proposed. Firstly, authorities must formulate and implement a healthy public policy. The policies will guide healthcare providers, patients, and home-based caregivers on how to approach and interact with one another. Secondly, there needs to be a supportive environment for all stakeholders. Community actions on health matters should be strengthened to create a better understanding among all participants. Lastly, the general provision of health services should be reoriented to suit all participants and targeted beneficiaries.

Conclusion

Diverse care delivery models for home-based care programs seek to provide services to all people in the most equitable way possible. The programs seek to provide equal health opportunities to all people, especially the neediest. In patient-based care, clinical decisions are driven by the patient’s values to ensure the services provided are as relevant and effective as possible. Family-centered care is focused on the well-being of relatives and children and is always geared towards a professional partnership between the family and healthcare providers. The provision of socially just health services faces numerous barriers including poverty, political tension, racism, cultural barriers, discrimination, and stereotyping. The recommendations put forward to suggest ways of ensuring the promotion of diverse and just models in healthcare services. They include policy formulation, creating a supportive environment for all stakeholders, and strengthening community health actions.

References

Alpert, J.L., Akinola, S.M., Booty, E., Dimitrova, D., Do, T.T., Emmanuel, A.L., Fröhlicher, P., Gitonga, C.W., Le Thu Hang, P., Hunt, L.S., Hussein, S., Kiarie, H., Mistry, S., Ngechu, R.N., Nikolic, I.A., Olago, A., Pollack, T.M., Vellenga, R., Wispelwey, B.P., & Duong, D.B. (2020). Annual Primary Care 2030 Convening: Creating an Enabling Ecosystem for Person-Centered Primary Healthcare Models to Achieve Universal Health Coverage in Low- and Middle-Income Countries . Annals of Global Health, 86 . Web.

Nnama-Okechukwu, C. U., & Okoye, U. O. (2019). Rethinking institutional care using family-based alternative child care system for orphans and vulnerable children in Nigeria . Journal of Social Work in Developing Societies , 1 (3). Web.

Puckett, J. A., Cleary, P., Rossman, K., Mustanski, B., & Newcomb, M. E. (2018). Barriers to gender-affirming care for transgender and gender-nonconforming individuals . Sexuality Research and Social Policy , 15 (1), 48-59. Web.

Putot, A. (2022). Simplicity in medicine: for a return to patient-based care . The American Journal of Medicine . Web.

Smith, M. J., Thompson, A., & Upshur, R. E. (2018). Is ‘health equity’ bad for our health? A qualitative empirical ethics study of public health policy-makers perspectives . Canadian Journal of Public Health , 109 (5), 633-642. Web.

Thrift, E., & Sugarman, J. (2019). What is social justice? Implications for psychology . Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, 39 (1), 1–17. Web.