America Through the Prism of Barlow’s Original Vision and British Opinions Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Original Idea
 3. Democracy
 4. Social Order
 5. Economic Stability
 6. Conclusion
 7. Works Cited

Introduction

America was discovered in the middle of the 15 th century, but opinions about this country and attitudes toward native citizens continued developing for many years. Some people tended to admire the development and success of the United States. Others argued about its ambiguity and the inability to keep a balance. In literary works, the American image underwent multiple changes. For example, in 1796, Joel Barlow introduced it as a youthful nation of virtuous simplicity. Within three-four decades, British authors like Charles Dickens, Alexis de Tocqueville, and Anthony Trollope questioned its social freedoms and public affairs. The comparison of the differences is a unique chance to understand why American civilization is never simple and clear but undergoes some changes and challenges from multiple perspectives. Instead of maintaining the characteristics of Barlow’s “hasty pudding,” new jeopardizing factors were revealed. In its intention to be free and equal, America damaged its individualism by social structures and imposed European traditions. Barlow’s original vision of the United States as a young and promising country and observations developed by Dickens, Tocqueville, and Trollope introduce a new two-way analysis of American democracy, social order, and economic stability.

Original Idea

Joel Barlow was a famous politician and poet who successfully transferred his knowledge and remarks into a mock-heroic project. “The Hasty-Pudding” is a unique poem because of a number of features, including the style, the applied literary devices, and the offered tone. Instead of describing the country using common language and simple words, Barlow wants to underline the importance of development. He shares his hopes that “till she [muse] in haste some further hints unfold, well for the young, nor useless to the old” (Barlow 11). The author prescribes many significant virtues to strengthen the country’s position in the world and promotes fast growth, focusing on how “in haste ‘tis serv’d, and then in equal haste” (Barlow 4). Compared to other poets, writers, and politicians, Barlow prefers a radical approach in discussing religious, social, and historical backgrounds. At the end of the 18th century, it was necessary to motivate people and get them ready to work hard and make all efforts. Inspiration is one of the essential goals of literature, and Barlow’s political knowledge helps fulfill this purpose and discuss democracy, freedom, and stability in the most attractive way.

Democracy

One of the most obvious things associated with America in the past or the present is its continuous strive for democracy. The British monarchy, French radicalism, and American democracy were three major controversies that had to co-exist in the international political arena. Tocqueville was a French political philosopher who defined democracy as a way of handling power and a style of life in America. Like Barlow, who tried to take the best opportunities from democratic ideas, Tocqueville was confident that this approach opened new horizons for the country’s development and the creation of practical citizens’ minds. This type of democracy was beneficial for American society because people were able to see what they had to see but not what they were imposed to follow. In his poem, Barlow proclaimed the necessity to “bear death to kings, and freedom to the world” (1). Thus, the law of America depended on people and their reaction to the events.

In their turn, Dickens and Trollope did not show the same enthusiasm. With time, Dickens realized that American democracy brought “loathsome, drooping, or decayed” outcomes (216). His British resilience did not allow him to support and idealize America for a long period. His research was thorough to prove that this country was not English enough to captivate him. Trollope admitted Americans as observers who saw “things material rather than things social or picturesque” (303). Democracy was evident in the country, but it did not motivate but made everything available, meaning Americans should not work hard to invent something new but use available resources. There were not enough reasons for these authors to admire America, but their love and attention could not be ignored.

Social Order

Human relationships defined Americans in many ways in the 1800s, and the chosen authors demonstrated their visions about how social order had to be promoted. The original statement by Barlow is his inspiration from young and simple America when “I sing the sweets I know, the charms I feel/” and “the sweets of Hasty-Pudding Come” can “inspire my soul” (1). The author respects the roots of the nation “made of Indian corn” (Barlow 5). In the 1800s, the situation was dramatically changed and worsened because inequality in the social order was hard to resist. As such, individuals had to unite as per their interests and needs and prove their rights. Dickens recognized “Indians in fire of eye and gesture, Americans in strong and generous impulse,” and others “hard to deceive, prompt to act, lions in energy” (292). Trollope also observed negative consequences as Indians were repressed due to the government’s attention (217). Tocqueville’s democratic fascination was not stable as well because privileges for one group of people provoked pressure within another group. Together with motivation and desire to live a better life, social order was disrupted and damaged.

Economic Stability

At the same time, despite evident differences in opinions about public relationships, the original position developed by Barlow and the vision of America by Tocqueville, Trollope, and Dickens had some things in common. All of them agreed that the country’s economic stability was the profit at different stages of its progress. Barlow said that “Then let them steal the little stores they can/ and fill their granaries from the toils of man (8). People identified their priorities but never put their economic security under threat because of personal issues or social instability. Dickens, Tocqueville, and Trollope also believed that the way how Americans earned money could become a good example for their countries. Instead of criticizing their activities and focusing on negative aspects only, all authors agreed that the economic stability and prosperity of the nation were tremendous for that period. The youth and virtuous simplicity of the nation brought their benefits and empowered Americans for further steps and achievements.

Conclusion

At the end of the 18th and the beginning of the 19th centuries, America was recognized as a competitive nation by many European countries. French and British writers and politicians shared their arguments to support Americans and identify their weak and strong sides. Barlow’s original vision of America as a young and ambitious country and an experienced combination of thoughts developed by Dickens, Tocqueville, and Trollope with time had many similar and diverse characteristics. Being unequal and democracy-challenged, American society was able to work and stabilize its economy to be an example for many European nations. Authors believed that simple and clear approaches to the organization of human activities and public relationships were not perfect, but it was enough to create a strong image for the future.

Works Cited

Barlow, Joel. The Hasty-Pudding: A Poem, in Three Cantos . William Storer, 1838.

Dickens, Charles. American Notes for General Circulation . Vol. 1, Cambridge University Press, 2009.

Trollope, Anthony. North America . Vol. 1, Cambridge University Press, 2012.