Community Health Nurse: Local Community Assessment and Interventions Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. “The Ninth Street:” Community Assessment
 3. Community Health Nurse Interventions
 4. Conclusion
 5. References

Introduction

Community health relies on many factors, and health care is only a small part of one’s well-being. People do not live in the same environment – some experience hunger, homelessness, poor living conditions, and more. Many neighborhoods have been influenced by racial discrimination and financial restrictions historically. This paper considers a line of inequality in Hartford, an American city, the housing quality of which has been dictated by segregation for decades. As a community health nurse, it is vital to consider the consequences of poor living arrangements for many residents and the effects on health these problems cause.

“The Ninth Street:” Community Assessment

The city of Hartford, CT, continues to fight the effects of racial segregation. There are many neighborhoods where community health meets many challenges, but a clear line can be drawn between the Northeast and Downtown neighborhoods (Health in Hartford, 2022). In the former, poor housing conditions, low economic stability, and lack of access to services lead to difficulties in everyday living (Access Health CT, 2021). The windshield survey shows that the neighborhoods near the center have a higher number of abandoned buildings and a lower quality of housing. Moreover, fewer stores with healthy foods and accessible healthcare facilities can be seen. In contrast, the Downtown area’s housing appears to be new or well-built, with stores and activity centers.

Therefore, on the first side, low-quality housing and the lack of access to healthy foods and medical care are potential health threats. As noted in the documentary by Smith (2008), a statistical connection exists between health problems and social status. Such factors as low income, low level of control at work or job insecurity, lack of access to healthy foods, and living conditions contribute to higher levels of stress. As a result, constant exposure to stress leads to increased rates of high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, and other conditions (Smith, 2008). Therefore, the neighborhood’s condition is a prominent threat to its residents’ health.

Moreover, the area’s housing is likely to have improper ventilation and moisture control in the buildings, which could result in mold and bad air quality. According to DeMarco and Healey-Walsh (2019), mold can lead to sensitive people developing respiratory symptoms. If left ignored, the poor quality of air and contaminants could lead to long-term breathing problems (Sullivan & Thakur, 2020). If people are unable to improve their living conditions, this problem can reach multi-generational levels.

Community Health Nurse Interventions

The knowledge gathered from this module shows that the neighborhood’s residents are exposed to many risks to their health. In particular, housing quality is concerning as it can lead to chronic conditions and long-term consequences (Smith, 2008). As DeMarco and Healey-Walsh (2019) note, population data gathered during community assessment is vital in supporting nurses’ research and intervention development. Leonard (2019) supports the findings of the windshield survey presented above – Hartford, similar to other cities in Connecticut, suffers from poor housing conditions. These include public spaces, drainage, sewer systems, and air quality.

As a result, many people, especially children, develop respiratory conditions, such as asthma. This problem is prevalent in black communities – black families are disadvantaged financially and territorially as the long history of segregation continues to drive lines through the city’s districts (Access Health CT, 2021). As an outcome, black children are five times more likely to go to the hospital because of asthma (Access Health CT, 2021). Leonard (2019) finds that one’s surroundings can have asthma triggers. If they are not removed, they can cause permanent damage to one’s respiratory system (Leibe et al., 2020). Additionally, Smith (2008) suggests that the quality of air in one’s home either empowers or negatively affects their health. Therefore, people who cannot afford to leave neighborhoods with unsafe housing are predisposed to a higher risk of health conditions.

Community health nurses can approach the described problem of housing disparity and health conditions from multiple angles. Looking at the issue from a case-finding perspective, a nurse can survey the area’s residents and investigate disease rates and related events (DeMarco & Healey-Walsh, 2019). Based on this information, screening and outreach programs can be developed. The nurse may focus on how specific households deal with their living surroundings’ quality in a family-centered perspective. Leonard (2019) suggests advocacy and awareness initiatives to help families create a cleaner and safer housing environment. From a systems perspective, the idea of environmental health should be considered. For example, nurses can create a program to advocate for better housing or spread information, testing, and assistance. In the neighborhood examined in the documentary by Smith (2008), healthcare professionals open a facility that teaches political activism to residents so they to voice their needs and establish a conversation with the government. This is a systemic approach that could promise long-term outcomes for future generations.

Conclusion

Community health is influenced by a variety of factors, some of which have a deep history. In Hartford, being a community nurse means fighting against the outcomes of segregation and racial discrimination that affected whole neighborhoods for decades. A considerable problem in the city is its housing – many people live without proper sanitary and heating systems, near abandoned or run-down buildings, or without access to good food and healthcare facilities. A significant health issue is an asthma, and the black population is at a higher risk statistically. Interventions for a community nurse may include systemic changes to care and education programs, advocacy for better living conditions, and research-based outreach initiatives.

References

Access Health CT. (2021). Health disparities and social determinants of health in Connecticut . Web.

DeMarco, R. F., & Healey-Walsh, J. (2019). Community and public health nursing: Evidence for practice (3 rd ed.). Wolters Kluwer.

Health in Hartford. (2022). Health in Hartford’s neighborhoods: Examining the relationship between housing and health . Web.

Leonard, N. (2019). Connecticut looks at tackling housing issues to treat asthma . CT Public . Web.

Smith, L. M. (2008). Unnatural causes: Is inequality making us sick? Episode 1: “In sickness and in wealth” . California Newsreel.

Sullivan, K., & Thakur, N. (2020). Structural and social determinants of health in asthma in developed economies: A scoping review of the literature published between 2014 and 2019 . Current allergy and asthma reports , 20 (2), 1-12. Web.