A Comic Science Fiction Film “Back to the Future” Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Movie’s Plot: Entertainment and Social Problems
 3. Movie’s Main Characters
 4. The Temporality in the Back to the Future
 5. Film Evaluation and Conclusion
 6. Works Cited

Introduction

In 1985, Universal Pictures released a comic science fiction film known as Back to the Future to entertain millions worldwide. In this fascinating story, the main character Marty McFly agrees to help his scientist friend Doc Brown, but something goes in an unpredictable direction. McFly and Brown are sent back to the 1950s in a time machine, so the viewers can have fun comparing the current and past decades. The main storyline of the film is that McFly is on a mission to get his parents to fall in love again to save his future existence. Such original games with the concept of temporary space are the distinctive “art” signature of the film’s director Robert Zemeckis. Over the years, the film has gained immense popularity and has become one of the greatest masterpieces of the 1980s. Keeping in mind that this movie was made in 1985, it will be argued that the film is great because of its excellent plot structure, character development, and detailed setting.

Movie’s Plot: Entertainment and Social Problems

Developing a meaningful story is an essential factor in making movies, and Back to the Future does just that. A critical element that made the movie an accomplishment is the plot development. In addition to the fact that the plot is exciting and adventurous throughout the whole film, the film’s creators raise acute societal problems. Finding roots in Barthe’s theorization of myth, Kerrigan indicates the importance of modern films as a tool to understand society and “resolve tensions in our lives” (2). Back to the Future makes people realize the integral value of their decisions and acts on the fate of further generations.

Besides, in the context of modern global problems, the effect of “playing” with time in the film may encourage thinking about the human impact on the environment and climate change. Marty and Doc realized how it is easy for minor changes in past events entirely change the future. In this regard, the film’s storyline has some similar patterns to Ray Bradbury’s science fiction short story “A Sound of Thunder”. In short, this story is about how several people used a time machine to go back 66 million years to organize a dinosaur safari. As a result, small interactions with nature made a huge difference when returning to reality – the English letters began to look different, and a completely different US president was elected. The same events could happen in Back to the Future if Marty and Doc committed severe mistakes. As for the viewers, they should realize how plastic pollution and air pollution may influence the world in the future.

It is also great to watch films with logical and thoughtful stories. Each plot point has a cause and effect, making it simple to find connections in the movie and why everything later relates. For example, in the first part of the movie, the news on the TV informs the audience that plutonium has been stolen from the state laboratories. Then Marty McFly enters on his skateboard, unaware that the plutonium is under the bed, and proceeds to play his guitar, causing the amp to blow out and knock him over. Thus, in this small plot juncture, the viewer can see the interdependence of numerous factors that determine the nature of the moment. Another example is when a lady approaches Marty asking him to financially support the clock tower. Towards the end of the movie, the film shows why the clock tower had stopped, and Marty was there when it happened, making the first scene relatable to the movie. These scenes are a prime example of how the film connects every stage without leaving the audience confused about what is happening.

Movie’s Main Characters

Another factor that made the movie such a success is character development. The most exciting aspect is the strikingly different worldviews and interests of Marty McFly and Doc Brown. Doc is a mad scientist; he constantly searches for the next significant invention from the film’s beginning. His character mirrors Marty, who has dreams of being successful with his rock music, but nothing seems to work out for him either. Although Doc and Marty are significantly different, their friendship inspires many teenagers worldwide. Friends do not have to be of the same social or racial origin. Instead, friendship is a universal notion that can break the barriers between different characters and nations. In addition, such entirely different behavior makes the viewers feel engaged in the film’s storyline. Doc’s and Martin’s communication is so unusual and unique that it is hard to miss a minor moment. If the whole family comes to the cinema on Back to the Future , they will find similarities between them and two friends from the movie.

The Temporality in the Back to the Future

Lastly, the setting was another critical component in making the movie so likable. What made the scene so great was how well the directors could distinguish the time in the past. One quickly discerned the time era difference because certain parts of the town would be missing or not created yet compared to the 80s. Since the movie is based on time traveling, it is essential that the audience can distinctly see what is different and what is going on. For example, during the 1950s, some roads were still dirt compared to the 1980s, which was one of the clear distinctions that the audience could immediately make.

In addition, the film is full of references to political and social news and events. Maslin from New York Times indicates that “one of the most appealing things about ”Back to the Future” is its way of putting nostalgia gently in perspective”. A comic episode of Marty announcing to people that Ronald Reagan will become the president of the US, Marty’s mother not knowing the brand Calvin Klein, and all the elements of 1950s pop-culture frame this time.

Film Evaluation and Conclusion

The art of evaluating films is a complex phenomenon that stays a debatable topic among scholars. The perception of the film can be influenced by political views, the characteristics of watching situations (at home or in the cinema; alone or with friends), the background experience, and so forth (Schnieder 5). Concerning the movie Back to the Future , it allows the young viewer from 2022 to see two different eras of the past.

Although this movie was made in the 1980s, its concept of time travel has been an enormous success even to this day. With a strong plot development, creative character development, and a detailed setting, Back to the Future is one of the most memorable movies ever created. It is a great film to watch with the old generation in a cozy atmosphere in the evening. It seems that this film will make the family relationships closer because, during the watching, young and old family members can discuss the differences between the 1950s, 1980s, and 2020s with everyone having the experience to contribute.

Works Cited

Kerrigan, Finola. “Movies.” Consumption Markets & Culture , vol. 21, no.5, 2018, pp. 503-509.

Maslin, Janet. “ In ‘Future,’ Boy Returns to the Past “. New York Times , 1985. Web.

Schneider, Frank M. “Measuring Subjective Movie Evaluation Criteria: Conceptual Foundation, Construction, and Validation of the SMEC Scales.” Communication Methods and Measures , vol. 11, no.1, 2017, pp. 49-75.