Bias and Discrimination: Prejudice, Discrimination, and Stereotyping Report (Assessment)

The TED Talks are illustrations of bio-psycho-social-spiritual developmental issues which ultimately create circumstances in which certain people do not feel fully included in society. For example, Smith (2015) refers to the differences correlating with raising a white and a black child. Abdel-Magied (2014), on the other hand, exemplifies how a piece of clothing changes the way people treat, view, and evaluate Muslim women. It is certain that discrimination starts with bias, which is a layered concept. An article published by New York Times (2016) refers to the experiences of non-white people in the US, which often correlate with the lack of feeling of inclusion.

This is also perpetrated by bias, which creates specific overviews in which people tend to favor a group of people over another one. The bias may be automatic, ambiguous, and ambivalent depending on its characteristics and how it manifests in terms of people’s opinions on certain groups of individuals (Fiske, 2022). While such incidents have never been personally experienced, it is certain that the lives of people I know have been affected in terms of self-esteem and confidence, which can often be negatively impacted because of discrimination. I would like to explore racial bias due to its relevance in today’s day and age, namely how it manifests on structural levels.

As mentioned prior, the three types of bias are automatic, ambiguous, and ambivalent. Automatic bias may be exemplified through the link between a white person’s overview of an African-American man as dangerous or a Muslim woman as suppressed, which is a result of intrinsic discrimination. Ambiguous biased is exemplified through a Latino person preferring to befriend other Latinos or an African-American individual seeking other African-Americans in terms of hiring preferences. Ambiguous bias (illustrated through characteristics of competence and warmth) can be referred to as one’s overview of all rich people as competent or all homeless people as incompetent. While people are different based on their background, skin color, religion, gender, and other characteristics, this does not mean they cannot get along if they are not judging others.

References

Abdel-Magied, Y. (2014). What does my headscarf mean to you? . TED Talk. Web.

Fiske, S. T. (2022). Prejudice, discrimination, and stereotyping . Noba. Web.

The New York Times. (2016). A conversation on Race. The New York Times. Web.

Smith, C. (2015). How to raise a black son in America . TED Talk. Web.