Application of Interviewing to a Violence Victim Essay (Critical Writing)

Table of Contents
 1. Setting
 2. Techniques and Strategies
 3. Question Types
 4. References

The purpose of interviewing the victim is to prepare him for the court sessions. The advocate tells the victim what he expects to see and hear during the court proceedings. It is important to ensure that John Smith is ready to communicate about the assault for the trial. The information obtained from the interview is essential because it can indicate whether the victim is implicated in the crime (“Interviewing Techniques in Domestic Violence Cases,” n.d.). By questioning the victim, the advocate can tell whether he is giving all the needed information, especially by narrating what happened.

Smith also needs questioning because he needs to understand the conditions in which he will be willing to talk in court or even in the interview room. The information is also needed for the proceeding, especially if the victim will be presented by the advocate. During the interview, the advocate should inform the victim’s rights regarding the case and that he is free to leave at any time should he feel uncomfortable because he is not under arrest.

Setting

The setting of the interview is critical to the willingness and chances of the victim to communicate. According to Kasim and Kamba (2019), domestic violence victims are less likely to confide if they feel threatened by the immediate environment. Thus, the environment in which the interview takes place should be conducive and comfortable enough for the victim to feel safe (“CJ 140 Project Three Scenario Victim Witness Advocate,” n.d). The current setting will make Smith feel safe because it is an office, separate from other courthouse amenities and activities.

The room also will have fewer people and, in this case, the interviewee and interviewer. The presence of law and governmental picture in the walls will highly increase the trust of Smith in the law hence giving Smith some safety assurance (Kasim & Kamba, 2019). Reduced noise and fewer disruptive decorations or information on the office walls are likely to make the victim concentrate. In other words, the isolated office will offer Smith the safety, confidence, and comfort he needs to talk.

The conducive environment provided by the office setting will also make the interviewer confident and attentive. The absence of many people in the office gives the interviewer the confidence to assure the victim that he can speak without fear (“CJ 140 Project Three Scenario Victim Witness Advocate,” n.d). The advocate will be more attentive to Smith because there are minimal interruptions from other people. Environments such as the police station or a law firm are not suitable for the interview because the advocate might be interrupted by police seeking inquiries or colleagues.

In such a setting where fewer people are listening to their conversation, the advocate can ask all types of questions needed to get the right information. Furthermore, the presence of law enforcement and government picture in the walls help the advocate to feel within the legal power boundaries to interview the victim. The location of the office, which is in the courthouse, guarantees the safety of the advocate as well as the reach of all information that may be necessary for the interview.

Techniques and Strategies

The setting of the interview and the fact that the advocate read the victim’s rights make him feel free to leave. The first thing to inform Smith before starting the interview is that he is free to leave anytime he wants because he is not under arrest. The victim may feel the need to leave if he is not ready or comfortable speaking to the interviewer. The advocate has to inform Smith that he should willingly participate in the interview and that he can leave should he feel like he cannot continue.

The advocate should use body language that encourages the victim to open up. The interviewer should remain calm with little body movements to create a calm environment (Kasim & Kamba, 2019). If the interviewer shows anxiety through constant body movement, the interviewee will likely be interrupted or feel unsafe to talk. Some of the body movements to avoid include cracking a knuckle, scratching the head or other body parts, hand knocks on the table, bending and crisscrossing the legs (Kasim & Kamba, 2019). However, the advocate should not be too stiff because that might create unnecessary tension. The interviewer must keep and maintain eye contact with the victim. Eye contact helps both parties to pay attention, ask the right questions and get the right answers.

During the interview, I will use a calm and direct tone to ask the right questions and get befitting answers. A calm or lower pitch of voice should be used to avoid sounding harsh. The advocate should ask direct questions in a supportive and matter-of-fact tone (“Interviewing Techniques in Domestic Violence Cases,” n.d.). The interviewee should never feel like the interviewer is being judgmental or insensitive. A sympathetic tone can also be used to show Smith that his situation is understandable. Showing sympathy makes the victim develop trust for the advocate. The tone should also be professional yet friendly to maintain boundaries and still connect with the victim.

Question Types

The important information needed from the interview is about the timeline of the assault. Smith should explain what conspired on the reported morning in lengthy details. He should tell exactly how he knew he had been attacked and what he did after the assault. Details about the frequency of assaults from his wife, either verbal or physical, are critical. Smith should also tell whether they had argued or some misunderstanding earlier in the day before the assault. Information about whether Smith has ever assaulted Jane, either verbally or emotionally, is also needed. It is also important to know how the couple always solved their disputes after the verbal assault or emotional abuse in the past. Lastly, the advocate needs to know whether Jane Smith only assaults her husband when drunk and how often she drinks.

Various types of questions, including reflective, directive, indirect, diversion, and self-appraisal, will help to gain the needed information. However, some types of questions, including reflective, directive, and self-appraisal, will be more useful than indirect and diversion because they are least likely to fetch the right information. Reflective questions will help Smith to focus on the happenings of the event, while directive questions will help him to tell the exact details needed (Kasim & Kamba, 2019). Self-appraisal or self-evaluation questions make the victim look into his life with his wife, thus remembering the assault’s conditions (“Interviewing Techniques in Domestic Violence Cases,” n.d.). Indirect questions might be the least useful in the interview because they may lack specificity and require more time to answer. Equally, diversion questions might make the interviewee wander between information before getting to the important details.

Some of the pitfalls to avoid include asking judgmental, annoying, boring, or suggestive questions. Judgmental questions such as “So you just stayed down and did not hit her back?” may annoy the victim and end the cooperation. Pointed type of questions that shows the advocate is bored or annoyed may hinder Smith from giving more information (“Interviewing Techniques in Domestic Violence Cases,” n.d.). Leading questions also may not be suitable because they may direct the interviewee to the incorrect direction of facts. Furthermore, questions that might seem to blame or intimidate the victim obstruct some critical information. Rhetoric or ambiguous questions such as “Are you okay?” are not necessary and may not help to find out how the victims feel.

References

CJ 140 project three scenario victim witness advocate. (n.d.). 1.

Interviewing techniques in domestic violence cases. (n.d.). 1-16. Web.

Kasim, N. M., & Kamba, S. N. M. (2019). Implementation of assistance for victims of domestic violence. Indonesian Journal of Advocacy and Legal Services , 1 (1), 147-156. Web.