COVID-19 Vaccine Awareness Essay

Table of Contents
 1. Introduction
 2. Rationale
 3. Audience
 4. Teaching Method
 5. Findings
 6. Learner Objectives
 7. References

Introduction

Vaccines are an important aspect of public health and the general wellness of people. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) defines vaccines as “a product that stimulates a person’s immune system to produce immunity to a specific disease, protecting the person from that disease.” Vaccines are commonly administered through direct injection by the use of a needle. Vaccines are an important part of the health system as they prevent the recurrence of dangerous diseases hence eliminating instances of future treatment of the same diseases.

Rationale

Vaccine awareness is particularly important for the audience due to its educative value. The Covid-19 pandemic attracted numerous controversies and conspiracy theories that need to be demystified for the public for the greater good. Through this awareness, the audience will be equipped with sufficient knowledge and be able to make informed decisions on whether to get vaccinated or go for other available alternatives (Educators for Social Change, n.d). The most important thing about vaccine awareness is being accorded credible information regarding COVID-19 vaccines rather than relying on information that could otherwise be misinforming to the public.

Audience

The target audience for this lesson is middle school to college-level students. Students are prioritized for this lesson because of the high risks of infection they face regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. Students in traditional settings tend to have uncontrolled social interactions that put them at risk of getting infected with the virus and thereafter contribute to further spreading to the outside world. As such students must get the relevant knowledge on vaccines including the processes of creation, why people should be vaccinated, and the safety of the vaccine. It is, however, important to state that vaccination against COVID-19 is the path toward regaining normalcy in schools and therefore all students should be encouraged to get vaccinated. This information will encourage more students to go for the vaccines and help stop the spread of the virus.

Teaching Method

To reach a larger population and ensure referencing at any particular point, this lesson will be transmitted through video. The disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic caused a shift in teaching methods from traditional teaching styles to the digitalization of teaching. Research indicates that teaching through digital platforms in form of videos and podcasts results in high rates of information retention and takes less time compared to traditional delivery methods (Li & Lalani, 2020).

Findings

  * COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective.
  * According to the CDC side effects of the vaccine headache, tiredness, muscle pain, and nausea are common and normal and only a sign that the body is adjusting accordingly.
  * The benefits of getting vaccinated outweigh the risks of not getting the vaccine; the risks include infection and death due to infection (CDC).

Learner Objectives

  * Equip students with relevant information on COVID-19 vaccines.
  * Demystify misinformation regarding the COVID-19 vaccination.
  * Encourage students to go and get vaccinated against the COVID- 19 virus as soon as possible.

Evaluation Criteria

A survey will be conducted on the targeted students to assess their knowledgeability of the students concerning the COVID-19 vaccination. The survey will be in form of a questionnaire on the general knowledge of the topic and also on their status and attitude towards vaccination.

References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2022). Safety of COVID-19 vaccines. Web.

Educators for Social Change (n.d). Teaching about vaccines. Web.

Li, C. & Lalani, F. (2020) The COVID-19 pandemic has changed education forever. This is how. Web.