397 words



The short story “The orphan and the elk dog” tells about Long Arrow, who is a young boy. Due to his hearing disability, the tribe does not accept him. However, even after getting rid of his problem, Long Arrow wants to prove his worth to the tribe as a member of the community. This essay explores how the author of “The orphan and the elk dog” uses literary elements to create a parable.

The author uses some figurative language to create a more lively and engaging picture. He writes that Long Arrow “was like a beaten, mangy dog” (Yolen, 2014, p. 221). Further, the author explains that it is “who hungrily roam outside a camp, circling it from afar, smelling the good meat boiling in the kettles but never coming close for fear of being kicked” (Yolen, 2014, p. 221). This simile helps to more accurately describe the character, giving the reader the opportunity to imagine his appearance.

The main themes of the story are adulting, believing in oneself, and overcoming difficulties. At the end of the story, Long Arrow thanks his adoptive parents by saying, “I can never repay you for your kindness” (Yolen, 2014, p. 226). They were the first who believed in him and allowed him to go through the difficult path to overcome obstacles. The story speaks about the need to believe in oneself and personal strength for improvement.

The story is told like a myth or parable and tells of overcoming difficulties. Thus, the tone that the author uses is serious, even edifying. He tries to illustrate Long Arrow’s story in such a way that the reader draws a moral from it. Thus, the tone of the story is not formal, as the author draws the reader into the world of the narrative. At the same time, it is extremely serious since the author does not use irony or humor.

The author of “The orphan and the elk dog” uses a simile to engage the reader and describe characters and environments more accurately. The main themes of the story are adulting and overcoming difficulties with the help of self-belief. To create the parable, the author uses a serious tone so that the reader can draw morals from the story. Thus, the combination of literary elements helps to convey the general mood of the narrative and to achieve the goals of the author.