376 words

Introduction
Coffee has always been a favorite drink of musicians, poets, and thinkers. For example, Honoré de Balzac could easily have 60 cups of coffee a day (Gökcen & Şanlier, 2019). Debates are still going on about the impact of coffee on the human body. Inside a coffee bean, there are more than 2,000 chemical substances, only half of which have been studied. Therefore, it is essential to establish the basic effects of coffee.

The Benefits of Coffee
Caffeine has a stimulating influence on the central nervous system. That is why a cup of coffee can easily help one cope with sleepiness and headache; in addition, it is an excellent antidepressant. Many studies confirm that coffee enhances memory, mood, reaction speed, attention, and cognitive functions (Samoggia & Riedel, 2019). Moderate consumption of this drink effectively prevents tooth decay, cholelithiasis, diabetes, heart attack, atherosclerosis, and many other diseases.

The Disadvantages of Coffee
Despite all the benefits, coffee is not the healthiest beverage. It raises blood pressure, which is bad for pregnant women and is addictive. Coffee energizes people, but this property is harmful when they attempt to sleep. At the same time, if a person is receiving medication, it is necessary to consult a doctor about whether it is possible to take pills together with coffee. This beverage can enhance, weaken or change the effect of the medication altogether. For example, researchers have studied the behavior of alendronic acid when taken with water and other drinks (Gökcen & Şanlier, 2019). It was determined that black coffee and orange juice weakened the absorption of the drug by 60%. The effect of thyroid drugs is reduced by 55% if coffee is requested (Gökcen & Şanlier, 2019). Additionally, a cup of coffee on an empty stomach stimulates the production of hydrochloric acid, which leads to serious digestive issues.

Conclusion
Thus, coffee is one of the most popular drinks globally; many people consume it every day. However, there are still debates about the benefits and harms of this product. Numerous studies are conducted; some scientists once again prove the negative impact of coffee on human health, while others continue to discover its new properties not known before. It is essential to note that coffee can benefit health only in moderate amounts.