399 words


Art is a form of expression of the creator’s feelings and perspectives. However, like any work, each piece involves a specific set of elements that define the approaches, message, and intended influence of the artist. Among the works worthy of analyzing to understand the main components of art is Andy Warhol’s portrait of Marilyn Monroe, which emphasizes the two-dimensional and colorful nature of the piece.

The first element worth mentioning is a line, which can be of different types. Among the types of lines are vertical, horizontal, curved, thick, thin, descriptive, and abstract lines (Massart, n.d.). They are important to the human environment since they allow an artist to replicate the shapes of objects. For instance, Andy Warhol’s portrait involves thick curved lines, which enabled him to show the details of Monroe’s face skillfully. As for colors, if everything was black and white, it would be hard to illustrate the atmosphere since colors can induce different emotions. For his work, Warhol includes a variety of colors, mainly shades of blue, yellow, and red, which enhance Monroe’s features. Additionally, the texture is essential to any painting when the creator wants to make the piece realistic. In the case of Marilyn Monroe’s portrait, it is flat.

The following element, shape, usually involves geometric or organic shapes, which can assist in creating a sense of dimensions. However, organic shapes are seen in Warhol’s work since the aim of the creator was to use natural lines. Speaking of dimensions, forms are usually three- or two-dimensional (Massart, n.d.). The analyzed work is two-dimensional since, while creating a sense of dimensions, it is flat. Considering negative and positive types of space, Warhol chooses to focus on positive space, Marilyn. Finally, the value of the painting shows the emotions the piece should induce and the intended influence. In the case of the portrait, the colors are light, which represents the kind and cheerful character of the actress.

Hence, Andy Warhol’s image of Marilyn Monroe, which draws attention to the piece’s two-dimensional and colorful character, is one of the pieces that are worth analyzing to comprehend the fundamental elements of art. In Marilyn Monroe’s portrait, Andy Warhol used broad, curving lines and a range of hues, primarily tones of red, yellow, and blue, to highlight Monroe’s features. The texture is flat and involves organic forms, finally using light colors to represent the soft character of the star.