371 words

Flare Guns is a song about conflicted love and how two people want to be together but are unsure if it is the right thing to do. When they call the individual, a mental “flare gun” goes off, and they question if it is a brilliant idea to keep coming back to the person who causes them so much grief. The chorus is the most significant motif in this song; it is repeated several times and truly hammers home Quinn and Chelsea’s argument.


The song begins by discussing how they are drifting apart, something they do not want to happen but may have to because they are both harmful to one other. While their love for one another is tremendous, there are several indications that they are not meant to be.

The song’s rhythm is primarily constant throughout. At some points, the pace varies slightly, and an additional instrument is introduced to help the lines flow. Quinn’s voice blends seamlessly with the song’s rate and rhythm, creating a pleasant tone.

The song’s pre-chorus talks about how he’d be willing to love her forever even though he knows it’s hazardous but also recognizes that it doesn’t seem wrong. The words are filled with passion; love is a strong feeling, and when an artist sings about it, you can tell whether they truly feel what they are talking about. Emotions make a song great; without them, there would be nothing. The feelings in this song are palpable, as seen by the instruments used and the way the performers sing the words. Quinn occasionally raises and squeaks his voice as if he is being harmed by the emotions he is singing about and feeling.

The music video is initially perplexing, as they simply stroll around amid the woods singing. However, listening to the lyrics and experiencing what they are singing makes a lot more sense. They sing in the song about drifting apart and going nowhere. Being in the woods is a world apart from society, and if they are going away from one another, they are “drifting apart.” Additionally, when wandering in the woods, one frequently becomes disoriented, so I can see how they might wind up going nowhere and drifting apart simultaneously.