352 words

Purpose
To inform the audience about the advantages of consuming dark chocolate.


Thesis statement
Whereas chocolate is high in milk and fat, dark chocolate has a number of health benefits for consumers.

Central idea
Eating dark chocolate is good for individuals with cardiovascular disease and excessive weight.

There are many products the effect of which on people’s health is considered controversial. Chocolate is one of such food items, which is believed to have many negative health outcomes by some and to possess positive features by others. While much can be argued about chocolate in general, dark chocolate has more benefits than disadvantages to people’s health. Specifically, its positive effects have been found in the spheres of cardiovascular health and food intake attenuation. Therefore, while chocolate is high in milk and fat, dark chocolate is not high in these elements but instead, it is rich in useful ingredients that can enhance people’s health.

Main Points
Dark chocolate is rather different from milk or white chocolate.
Dark chocolate has considerable cardiovascular benefits.
Dark chocolate plays an important role in weakening subsequent food intake.
Developing Main Points
Dark, milk, and white chocolate contain different proportions of cocoa, milk, and milk butter (Marsh, Green, Naylor, & Guelfi, 2017). Out of these three types, dark chocolate has the highest level of cocoa and the lowest levels of milk and cocoa butter. Hence, it is the most useful to consume and not worry about excessive weight.
Cardiovascular benefits of dark chocolate include elevated platelet aggregation, improved blood pressure, and enhanced endothelial function (Kerimi & Williamson, 2015). Furthermore, dark chocolate has been proved to embellish nitric oxide bioavailability and promote mitochondrial structure and function (Higginbotham & Taub, 2015).
Dark chocolate diminishes the desire to eat compared to white and milk chocolate (Marsh et al., 2017).
Review of Main Points
What are the differences between various types of chocolate?
What cardiovascular benefits does dark chocolate have?
How does dark chocolate affect food intake?
Closing Statement
Dark chocolate offers a number of health benefits to people.

