401 words


Introduction
Many scientists and philosophers who study human nature consider human will a controversial issue in which many different aspects exist. The following philosophers can be attributed to them, namely Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, and Berkeley. Their understanding of the definition of human will is based on the debate as to whether the will free or determined. However, Hobbes’s philosophical view of human will is more balanced.

Views of Hobbes, Locke, and Berkeley Regarding Human Will
Before considering the opinion of each philosopher regarding the human will, it will be essential to define this concept. According to Melé and Cantón, “human will refers to the human capacity to actively decide what to do instead of reacting automatically to stimuli” (157). Hobbes’ view is that man is free in that he has the liberty to “do if he will” and “to do what he wills” (Yaldir 269). It is important to note that, according to this philosopher, a person does not have enough freedom to hold his own will. On the other hand, John Locke believes that a person has no freedom regarding human will (Oyekan 64). In his opinion, the individual cannot define his human will, and that free will is only an illusion. The third philosopher, Berkeley, has the opposite view of Locke. He believes that the person has completely free human will (Bowen 119). Berkeley says that a man can choose between his actions, and their will cannot be determined.

My Opinion
From my perspective, the correct view is that of the philosopher Thomas Hobbes. I agree with his view that a person can act according to their will. One can choose between doing something or not, relative to whether he has the will or not to do it. However, at the level of nature and the physical level, the person cannot choose his will. In my opinion, this view is based on the fact that the sense of human identity and human brain development have not reached a stage where one could control one’s own will.

Conclusion
In conclusion, it is worth emphasizing that although there are many views on the notion of human will, some are balanced and close to reality. One such point of view, in my opinion, is the position of Thomas Hobbes. However, the debate about whether the human will is free or determined is long-lasting, as I think much depends on the individual.