382 words


A contemporary person living in a modern world should learn to eat well since what a person eats, in the long run, determines their health status. Eating nutrient foods can keep you healthy while eating bad foods or acting in an unhealthy manner will cause issues in the human body. Adopting a nutritious diet in daily meals is one of the most important aspects of good eating habits.

This diet is designed to help people achieve and maintain better overall health. Many junk meals that are not necessarily nutritious are consumed as part of modern lives. Taking adequate macronutrients and micronutrients are essential aspects of a healthy diet (Abdelhamid et al., 2020). I had little to no idea about my eating habits or how to eat “correctly” before taking this nutrition journal assignment. For example, I was constantly under the impression that I was overeating fat, and I didn’t know the difference between healthy (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated) and harmful (saturated) fats. I ate breakfast for all five days, which improved my concentration during the day and gave me more strength to engage in physical activity. After learning about the importance of essential nutrients in dairy products like calcium, potassium, Vitamin D, and protein, I’ve decided to take one fruit and vegetable daily. As a result, I started taking fruits instead of snacks, which usually were chips, candy, etc. To make the diet more efficient, I took the vegetables as salads after lunch or dinner. I am pleased to report that I met my expectations in a few areas, such like I tried drinking at least a liter of water per day and stopping drinking soda. I found that this project was valuable not just in terms of my health but also in terms of the additional knowledge it provided me with to help me establish and maintain a healthier lifestyle.

I noticed that when it comes to organizing my meals for the weekend, I have no set routine, which might lead to consuming unhealthy items. As a result, I aim to make a concerted effort to incorporate more healthy options throughout the weekend, even if it means bringing smart snacks on the go. With this in mind, I am sure I will meet my objective of maintaining a healthy yet manageable diet.