378 words


If I had to choose a country for working, it would be Switzerland that seems to have relevant benefits. Switzerland is on the list of leaders not only in the country’s economic state but also regarding quality of life. A stable economy, high salaries, and comfortable living conditions combined with the developed infrastructure in both small towns and conurbations, beautiful nature, and environmental friendliness make the local labor market attractive to foreigners. Even though Switzerland is not a member of the European Union, the country is constantly developing: great conditions for business establishment are provided here. The legal system is simple and transparent, not to mention the sensational reputation of local banks.

The shadow economy of Switzerland is significantly lower than the one in Germany, France, Portugal, Spain, or Italy. To achieve this result, the country’s government has introduced a law on combating illegal activities. As a result, the number of inspections has increased, the sanctions imposed on illegal workers and their employers have risen. In Switzerland, there is no concept of a minimum wage – in 2014, 76% of the country’s population decided that they did not need this indicator in an open referendum (Aeschbacher & Addor, 2018). There are allowances for experience: if an employee who does not have special knowledge has been working in a certain field for more than four years, he is entitled to an additional payment for the length of service – about 10% of the initial rate (Aeschbacher & Addor, 2018). The country has a 13-month system: the salary is paid in double volume in the last month of the year. In addition to the specialty and experience, the income level is influenced by age, education, working hours, the field of activity, belonging to a particular canton.

By way of conclusion, the best place to stay, beautiful landscapes, affordable and high level of medicine and social security, excellent infrastructure, affordable prices, high-quality work – this is all Switzerland. The average salaries in the country from official sources are quite consistent with real indicators. Although Switzerland has some problems regarding ethnic diversity, it can be a perfect example of a developed and economically stable country. All of these factors make Switzerland a perfect option for establishing a perfect career and developing it.