379 words

Definition of Minerals
Minerals are inorganic substances that form one of the four groups of essential nutrients required for the normal functioning of the body. Minerals must be taken in adequate quantity to ensure normal metabolic and structural functions in the body, such as growth and development, cell function regulation, and others.


Seven Major Minerals
1. Calcium

2. Phosphorus

3. Magnesium

4. Chloride

5. Potassium

6. Sodium

1 hour!
The minimum time our certified writers need to deliver a 100% original paper
7. Sulfur

The Difference between Major and Trace Minerals
The major minerals are contained in the human body in a concentration of more than 100 milligrams per kilogram; their daily intake must be from hundreds of milligrams to several grams. Trace minerals are contained in lower amounts, and their intake must be a few milligrams per day.

Benefits of Calcium and Iron in Maintaining Health
Calcium’s primary benefit is maintaining healthy bones and teeth. The loss of calcium in bone begins after the age of fifty, and it causes bone fracture risk, making it essential to consume calcium as a food supplement for older people. Besides bone and teeth, calcium is found in a small amount in other tissues, which plays a role in cell division, muscular contraction, and nerve transmission.

Iron is the main part of hemoglobin, which provides the transportation of oxygen and carbon dioxide through red cells. It also affects immune system functioning and energy production in the body.

Pattern of Dietary Intake of Sodium and Potassium in Relation to Heart Health
Sodium and potassium are the two major minerals that are crucial in maintaining heart health. However, at present, the ratio of both minerals in the general population’s diet is not appropriate, which causes the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Quantitative estimates of sodium and potassium intake in the general population demonstrate that “almost all adults in the United States have a daily intake of sodium that exceeds federal recommendations and a potassium intake that fails to meet federal recommendations” (Whelton, 2018, p. 247). Current research proves that cardiovascular events, such as stroke and heart failure, are the most often occurring outcome of it. It is suggested that “higher potassium and lower sodium-to-potassium ratio are necessary for lowering the occurrence of CVD” (Gonçalves & Abreu, 2020). However, scientists state that the issue requires further research on this matter.