357 words


Mountains are a great part of nature that create picturesque sceneries and images. The natural formation can be both on land and sea which leads to islands. There are volcanic mountains and tectonic. Some many plants and animals live in the mountains, but some places have very little life. These are covered with snow and are rather high, in conditions that have little oxygen for living organisms to breathe.

Generally, mountains are divided into three sections. The smallest mountains are below one thousand kilometers, the medium mountains have a relative height of one or 2 kilometers and up to 3, and there are the highest mountains which are greater than 2 or 3 kilometers. Mountains are formed by volcanic eruptions, and in case it is an underwater magma eruption, islands form. The on-land mountains form by the movement of the Earths’ crust. When two tectonic plates are moving towards each other, they crash into one another, and the place where they meet results in the uplift of the earth. Even though a mountain might seem unchanged, it is being worn down by erosion. Wind, heat and cold, rain and ice all influence the way a mountain looks and how high it is. Glaciers have been known to greatly change how mountains look.

The mountains are enormous formations that can cause a change of climate. Because of their height and large area, they are known to block wind and cold or hot weather fronts. This leads to a mild climate that does not fluctuate about different seasons. Even though life can exist on mountains, such as wild goats and cats, the range of conditions beneficial to life is rather small. The higher the elevation, the less life there is. Trees cannot grow on mountains that have great elevation and the same is true for animals because of the impartial air consistency. People have been known to find solitude in the mountains, but the highest mountains have very poor conditions for life, especially with little protection from the UV rays due to lack of oxygen. Mountain climbing and skiing are some of the popular activities that humans engage in.