323 words

Exclusively available on IvyPanda®
In the modern world, more and more attention is paid to social justice issues. Public justice is the fundamental principle of a peaceful and prosperous life in the country and between states. The principles of social equity are aimed at removing the barriers that arise in front of people due to various factors. It includes age, race, ethnicity, religion, culture, and the presence of a disability (Marshal et al., 2020). The international community recognizes that social development and justice can be achieved in conditions of respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms.

Nowadays, significant progress in international investments, capital flows, and trade, along with the development of information technologies, cause globalization and interdependence. In turn, it promotes the world economy’s growth and the rise and improvement of living standards throughout the world (Malihah, 2019). In the aspect of social justice of work, emphasis is placed on guaranteeing the achievement of fair results for all through the provision of employment. Moreover, one should provide meeting fundamental rights and principles, social dialogue, and protection to workers.

It should be noted that social justice is an ambiguous concept. Public equity means receiving benefits according to merit but, at the same time, caring for the vulnerable sections of society (Yacounian & Hansson, 2020). Today, social justice can also be understood as equality before the law, social security, and considering the vital needs of the country’s population. Social equity can be called a universal human value since its manifestations are natural for any healthy society.

To conclude, social justice is one of the foundations of modern civil society. It is on par with other eternal values such as culture, knowledge, human life, peace, and morality. A country that supports social justice for its own citizens participates in the formation of an active civil society. At the same time, social justice allows citizens to feel the rule of law and equal access to their own rights and obligations.