329 words

According to utilitarianism, the greatest ethical action is the one that benefits society, and the value of each person is more significant than the value of a community. The founding father of utilitarianism is Jeremy Bentham, who established two main principles of this theory. Two theory notions involve the pleasure-pain principle and the principle of utility. Consequently, both principles prescribe seeking actions that lead to the most benefit and pleasure.

The first principle, as described by Bentham, involves the pleasure-pain principle. According to the philosopher, pain and pleasure are natural feelings that determine the actions of humans (Xiaofei, 2021). Additionally, these two matters identify the wrong and rights and establish the cause and effect (Xiaofei, 2021). Consequently, it is evident that the goal of any deed is to ensure maximum enjoyment while minimizing pain (Xiaofei, 2021). Thus, either one of the matters determines whether the act is good or bad, emphasizing the pleasant outcome as good and the painful outcome as bad.

Another principle outlined by Bentham concerns the principle of utility. According to Bentham, the objective of the utility is to produce beneficial effects, as well as being advantageous and pleasant, while eliminating the pain and negative impacts (Xiaofei, 2021). The principle of utility does not approve of an object or an action that causes harm or endangers somebody or something (Xiaofei, 2021). In this respect, all actions and objects must serve in public’s interests. It is, therefore, evident that Bentham would view the vaccination case as part of utilitarianism. The process of vaccination works in the community’s interests, ensuring the overall health and wellbeing of society.

Hence, the theory of utilitarianism lies within the idea of actions or objects that bring pleasure and are beneficial to either an individual or society. The founding father of utilitarianism, Jeremy Bentham, provides two notions of the theory. While the pleasure-pain principle determines whether a deed is good or bad, another principle of utility ensures the act does not cause harm.