401 words

Lute songs have always been popular worldwide, and compositions of different sounds have caught the attention of many listeners interested in the music industry. ‘Flow, my tears’ is one of the most recognized works provided by talented author John Dowland (NewFFL10, 2011). The author tried to show how people express their emotions and what is the meaning of tears in human life. The beginning of the composition has a sad motive, which may confuse the listener about the motive of the work. However, Dowland increases the tempo during the song, and the singer’s voice should rise to keep the listener’s attention. The changes in speed and the mood of the masterpiece can be considered one of the famous English songs which stays popular in the modern world. Talented singers around the world sing the song and share with the listeners the deep meaning of emotions. This paper aims to show the example of Valeria Mignaco and her significant performance.

The beginning of the composition shows a depressive side of the text which includes the tears caused by the loneliness. In the signing presented by Valeria Mignaco, in the line “flow, my tears, fall from your springs,” she shows the torment of people who lived in the 17th century and faced a crisis in different spheres of life (Lutevoice & Alfonso, 2007). Nevertheless, I was expressed by the crescendo, which means the increase in the volume in the middle of the song. I believe that the author tried to show that people should stay strong and be indifferent to certain things to overcome problems. Valeria Mignaco sings the second part of the song with increased aggression in the voice, and this method helps to understand the depth of the work. Moreover, the well-pronounced letter ‘R’ shows the forte and loudness of the text. This specific method can maintain the attention of the listener until the end. By slowing down the voice, the singer concludes her expressive performance and decreases the level of aggression in the voice.

In conclusion, the masterpiece provided by one of the greatest musicians, John Dowland, carries an important message which is related to the human being and psychological stability. By making the work logically divided for listeners like me into specific parts known as introduction, body, and conclusion. Consequently, the song’s structure and representation fascinate many generations, which find their unique meaning in every line of the text.